Limelight 4 Quick-Start
Hardware Specifications
​
Footprint: 3.154in x 1.894in (80.11mm x 48.11mm)
Thickness: 1.160in (29.46mm)
Mass: 0.3 lb
#10 / M4 Thru-Hole Mounting
M3 Threaded mounting holes
Power Input: Buck-Boost with 5V-26V Operation (3.5V - 35V absolute maximum)
Enhanced transient suppression for robotics applications
12W maximum power consumption
Sensor: OV9281 Global Shutter Monochrome (1280x800 @ 120FPS, 640x400 @ 240FPS)
IMX462 Back-Illuminated Upgrade Kit coming soon.
Replaceable M12 Lens
82 deg Horizontal FOV, 56.2 deg Vertical FOV
Black-Anodized, All-Aluminium Enclosure
Gigabit Ethernet RJ45 Port (POE is no longer supported)
Weidmuller Power Input Port
USB C Imaging and Connectivity Port
Internal IMU
Hailo 8 AI Accelerator support with internal M.2 A+E Key Port.
Software Capabilities (Limelight OS)
​
Plug-and-Play high-performance vision. No experience required.
Self-hosted browser-based UI for vision pipeline configuration
REST/HTTP, Websocket, NetworkTables, ModbusTCP, and ROS support
USB connectivity with plug-and-play USB-Ethernet Driver support on Windows, Linux, MacOS, and Android
Drag-and-Drop 20FPS MobileNetSSD object detector neural network support (CPU Inference)
Drag-and-Drop 80FPS YoloV8 object detector neural network support (Requires Hailo-8)
Configurable Fixed exposure, sensor gain, resolution, and framerate.
Configure 10 Hot-swappable Vision Pipelines:
Custom Python Pipelines with OpenCV 4.10, numpy, etc.
2D, 3D AprilTag Tracking and Robot Localization
Full 3D Localization (Robot GPS) with MegaTag1
Higher-Accuracy Full 3D Localization (Robot GPS) with External IMU Fusion with MegaTag2
Internal IMU Fusion For higher-accuracy MegaTag2
IMU Assist Modes to fuse internal IMU and External IMU or Camera-Based Yaw Estimate
Up to 240FPS performance with detector Downscaling
Full 3D Visualizer in web interface
120-240FPS Color Blob pipelines
Neural Object Detection Pipelines
Neural Image Classification Pipeliens
Barcode Tracking Pipelines
Lens Focusing Pipeline
Viewfinder pipeline for low-latency streaming
Built-in Charuco Intrinsics Calibration interface for high-accuracy vision pipelines.
Intrinsics Calibration visualization
Built-in low-latency MJPEG Streaming. Configurable stream orientation
Known Issues
Hailo Accelerated Apriltag Framerates are too low when downscaling is enabled (To be addressed with a SW update)
Temperature Readings from NetworkTables are not accurate while throttling is enabled (To be addressed with a SW update)
1. Mounting Limelight 4
​
Thru-Hole Mounting
​
Use 1 1/4" #10-32 or #10-24 screws with nylock nuts
Alternatively, use 38mm M4 bolts with nylock nuts
Use plastic washers to preserve anodization
Threaded Mounting (Backside)
​
2x M3 threaded mounting points
Consider light application of threadlocker
2. Wiring Limelight 4
​
Power
​
Run two 18-20AWG wires from your Limelight to a slot on your PDP, PDH, or Mini PDP
Use a 5A or 10A breaker
POE is no longer supported
Note
: Unlike previous models, LL4 can survive battery disconnect and regenerative braking events without requiring a dedicated VRM
(Not Required) Use Weidmuller ferrules for optimal results (Pictured, 20AWG Wire with Weidmuller 20AWG Orange ferrules)
Ferrules:
https://www.digikey.com/en/products/detail/weidm%C3%BCller/0409500000/491834
https://store.ctr-electronics.com/products/weidmuller-ferrule-pack-of-20?variant=43631135195309
Low-cost Ferrule crimp tools:
https://store.ctr-electronics.com/products/ferrule-crimper-by-iwiss?_pos=2&_sid=616edc4f4&_ss=r
https://www.amazon.com/Ferrule-Crimping-Hexagonal-Ferrules-Connectors/dp/B09724DCJH?th=1
Ethernet
​
Run an ethernet cable from your Limelight to your robot radio
Use twisted Cat6 cables with stranded wires (ideally 20AWG)
Add a strain relief to your ethernet cable
POE is no longer supported
USB Flashing
​
To enter flash mode, hold the configuration while plugging-in over USB C
While flashing, it is safe to power Limelight 4 over USB.
USB-Ethernet Interface
​
Limelight 4 has USB-Ethernet funcitonality that allows for plug-and-play connectivity with Windows, Linux, and MacOS. You can use the web interface and all other features over USB.
While using this interface, Limelight 4 will exceed the power rating of most USB ports. It is recommended to power Limelight 4 via the weidmuller port while using USB-Ethernet.
Limelight 4 configuration UI on Windows (USB-Ethernet):
http://172.28.0.1:5801
Limelight 4 configuration UI on Linux (USB-Ethernet):
http://172.29.0.1:5801
3. Accessing the Web Interface
​
After connecting your Limelight 4 to your network:
Power up your robot and connect your laptop to your robot's network
Use one of these methods to access the web interface:
Method 1
: Open the Limelight Hardware Manager application, scan for Limelights, and double-click on your Limelight when it appears
Method 2
: Open a web browser and navigate to
http://limelight.local:5801
Method 3
: Open a web browser and navigate to your Limelight's static IP address with port 5801 (if configured)
Method 4 (USB)
: Connect via USB-C and navigate to:
Windows:
http://172.28.0.1:5801
Linux/Mac:
http://172.29.0.1:5801
Once connected, you'll have access to:
Settings tab - Configure team number, hostname, and other system settings
Vision Pipeline tabs - Set up and tune your vision processing pipelines
Camera & Crosshair tab - Adjust camera settings and crosshair parameters
3D Visualization tab - View real-time AprilTag detection and localization
All configuration is done through this web interface. Changes are saved automatically to your Limelight.
4. Updating LimelightOS
​
caution
Backup your pipelines and scripts before upgrading - they will be erased during this process!
Power off your Limelight
Download the latest
USB drivers/RPIboot, Limelight OS image, and Balena Flash tool
Hold the config button while connecting a USB-C cable from your laptop to your Limelight
Run "rpiboot-CM4-CM5 - Mass Storage Gadget" from the Windows start menu
You should see the following if RPIBoot has successfully mounted your Limelight.
If you see anything else, remove the USB Cable, re-press the button, reinsert the usb cable, and restart the rpiboot utility.
Run "Balena Etcher" as administrator
Click "Flash From File" and select the latest .zip image
Click "Select Target" and choose "mmcblk0 USB Device" in the "Drives" menu
Click "Flash" and wait for completion
Remove the USB cable when done
5. Focusing Your Limelight 4
​
Power-on your robot.
Connect to the web interface as described in section 3
Click the "Ignore NT pipeline index" to enable pipeline switching, and switch to pipeline 9
Set the pipeline type to "focus"
Go to the configuration tab, and increase stream quality to maximum
Make sure the camera is pointed at something with lots of features and contrast, such as an ARUCO board, a detailed scene, or a siemen's star
Turn the lens to maximize the on-screen focus score
Once focused, apply 3-8 dots of super glue or super glue gel around the lens
6. Network Configuration
​
Setting the Team Number (Required for FRC / Networktables)
​
Power up your robot and connect your laptop to your robot's network
Open the Limelight Hardware Manager, scan for Limelights, and double click the entry that appears.
Alternatively, navigate to
http://limelight.local:5801
Go to the "Settings" tab
Enter your team number and press "Update Team Number"
Setting a Unique Hostname (Only Required for FRC / Networktables systems with multiple Limelights)
​
If you are using multiple Limelights, each Limelight must have a unique hostname
In the settings tab, configura a hostname and click the "set hostname" button.
Setting Static IP (Recommended, not required)
​
Change "IP Assignment" to "Static"
Set IP address to "10.TE.AM.11"
Team 916 uses 10.9.16.xx
Team 9106 uses 10.91.6.xx
Team 9016 uses 10.90.16.xx
Set Netmask to "255.255.255.0"
Set Gateway to "10.TE.AM.1"
Click "Update"
Power-cycle your robot
Access your config panel at 10.TE.AM.11:5801 and camera stream at 10.TE.AM.11:5800
If you are using multiple Limelights, give each Limelight a unique static IP address. Gateways and netmasks should be the same across Limelights.
Q. Why do we recommend the use of a static IP address?
A. It multiple seconds off Limelight’s boot time.
Second, teams have historically had issues with DHCP assignment and
mDNS responders on actual FRC fields and with event radio firmware.
We recommend setting static IP addresses on your robo-rio and driverstation as well.
The networking settings to use on all of these devices can be found near the bottom half of
this web page
7. Limelight 4 Thermal Management
​
Limelight 4's thermal output can be reduced by setting the Throttle parameter to 100-200 while disabled, and to 0 while enabled.
Alternatively, you can switch to a viewfinder pipeline while disabled.
8. Hailo AI Accelerator Module Installation (Optional)
​
If you have the optional Hailo AI accelerator module, follow these steps to install it:
Attach the included thermal pad to the Hailo SOC (System on Chip)
Use the included 1.5mm Allen wrench to remove the three 8mm M2 enclosure screws
Set these screws aside (they have threadlocking material)
Carefully open the enclosure (note: the camera cable will limit how far you can open it)
Insert the Hailo module into the appropriate slot
No screws are required to secure the Hailo module
Reattach the enclosure using the original three 8mm M2 screws
After installing the Hailo module, make sure to update to the latest version of LimelightOS.
warning
The Hailo Accelerator Module is inoperable with USB power. It requires a stable 12V power source, like the main robot battery, for proper function.
8. Troubleshooting
​
Status Bar Indicators
​
Slow Cylon (Scanning)
: No targets detected by the current pipeline
Fast Cylon (Scanning)
: Targets detected by the current pipeline
Slow Alternating LED Blink
: Hardware error (camera cable disconnected, sensor damage, etc.)
If limelight.local:5801 doesn't work
​
Check if you have Bonjour installed (Windows: add/remove programs)
Uninstall "bonjour print services" if you have two Bonjour items
Install Bonjour from the Downloads page if missing
Reset IP address
​
Hold the config button for 10 seconds after your Limelight has booted
Networking configuration will reset to dynamic addressing on next boot