REV ION Brushless
REV ION Brushless Overview
Quick Links
Frequently Asked Questions
NEO Brushless Motors
Brushless DC Motor Basics
NEO Vortex
Docking a SPARK Flex
Vortex Shafts
Installing a Shaft
NEO Vortex Solo Adapter
NEO V1.1
NEO V1
Pinion Pressing Guides
NEO 550
Pinion Pressing Guide
Dynamometer Testing
Motor Comparison
SPARK Flex Motor Controller
SPARK Flex Overview
Flex Dock
SPARK Flex Specifications
SPARK Flex Feature Description
Power and Motor Connections
Control Connections
Data Port
Mounting Holes
Control Interfaces
Mode Button
Operating Modes
SPARK Flex Getting Started
Wiring the SPARK Flex
Make it Spin!
Basic Configurations
SPARK Flex Status LED Patterns
SPARK Flex Troubleshooting
SPARK Flex Operating Modes
SPARK MAX Motor Controller
SPARK MAX Overview
SPARK MAX Specifications
Power and Motor Connections
Control Connections
Encoder Port
Data Port
SPARK MAX Getting Started
Wiring the SPARK MAX
Make it Spin!
Basic Configurations
SPARK MAX Status LED Patterns
SPARK MAX Troubleshooting
SPARK MAX Operating Modes
SPARK MAX Control Interfaces
SPARK MAX Configuration Parameters
Using Encoders with the SPARK MAX
Absolute Encoders
Alternate Encoder Mode
Securing the Encoder Adapters
Calibration for MAXSwerve
REVLib
REVLib Overview
Migrating to REVLib 2025
Closed-Loop Control
REVLib Code Examples (2025)
Tips and Tricks
Anderson Powerpole Connectors
REV Hardware Client Documentation
Legacy Documentation
SPARK Motor Controller
SPARK MAX Client
Navigating the SPARK MAX Client
Updating Device Firmware
Recovery Mode with the SPARK MAX Client
SPARK MAX Client Troubleshooting
Powered by GitBook
On this page
NEO Vortex
SPARK Flex
SPARK MAX
NEO V1.1
NEO 550 FAQ
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
NEO Vortex
What are some best practices for using the NEO Vortex in a build?
NEO Vortex Tips and Tricks
When seating your Vortex with a SPARK Flex or Solo Adapter make sure your have aligned the bullet connectors and data connectors. They should seat near completely with hand pressure then secured with screws. Do not over tighten.
Do not over tighten the the shaft screw when using a Vortex Shaft.
The Vortex is an outrunner, so make sure there are not wires or components that can touch the spinning rotor.
If the Vortex is used in an application that you are not using a shaft screw, make sure cover the shaft opening on the top of the Vortex to prevent dust and debris from falling into the Vortex spindle.
What Smart Current Limit should I set for my NEO Vortex?
The default Smart Current Limit is 80A, which is acceptable for most applications when driven by a SPARK Flex however...
We recommend utilizing our
motor curves
and
specifications
to help calculate what the best current to torque ratio for your application will be.
SPARK Flex
Are there any quick tips for getting the most from a SPARK Flex?
SPARK Flex Tips and Tricks
Be sure to clean the SPARK Flex's surface with compressed air and remove any dirt or metal debris from the surrounding wire connections. If particulates find their way into the wire connectors you may experience intermittent connection issues.
Maintain sufficient wire management to avoid critical wires from being strained and ripped out. Before your team puts the robot on the field, give all wires one last smart tug to ensure everything is secure for the match.
Remember to update your SPARK Flex to the latest firmware when connecting your robot through the REV Hardware Client.
SPARK MAX
What is your best advice for using a SPARK MAX?
SPARK MAX Best Practices
Ensure the firmware installed on your SPARK MAXs is the latest version! You can do this using the REV Hardware Client.
Ensure you've set a proper
Smart Current Limit
for your motor and what it will be driving.
Keep your wire management neat. Wires need to be protected and organized so they are can not be clipped by mechanisms or become an entanglement risk.
Protect the SPARK MAX from debris and impacts. Use the included port covers or tape over the data port when not in use.
Regularly inspect your SPARK MAX and its wires for a secure connection and damage.
How do I run an encoder with the SPARK MAX?
We have a documentation page that can help!
Check out
Using Encoders with the SPARK MAX
!
My SPARK MAX isn't working, where do I start?
Don't panic! Take a step back and assess the current situation.
A good place to start isolating the root issue would be to go through our
Troubleshooting - SPARK MAX
documentation.
What does the LED on my SPARK MAX indicate?
The Status LED indicates the operation mode or fault status of your SPARK MAX
See our reference table on the
SPARK MAX Status LED Patterns
to find the LED behavior that matches your SPARK MAX. Both color and speed of the blinking pattern are important to note!
Should I change the factory default setting for Smart Current Limit?
Your Smart Current Limit will depend on the motor being controlled and what it is driving.
A new SPARK MAX's Smart Current Limit default setting is 80A, but may need to be less. We recommend utilizing our locked-rotor testing data or the table below to decide what to set your Smart Current Limit to for your robot:
Locked-Rotor Testing for the NEO (REV-21-1650)
and
NEO 550 (REV-21-1651)
.
Generally, the following ranges work well:
NEO V1.1:  40 A - 60 A
NEO 550:   20 A - 40 A
Can I run a NEO Vortex with a SPARK MAX?
You will need to purchase one of our
NEO Vortex Solo Adapters (REV-11_2828)
Check out our documentation on the
NEO Vortex Solo Adapter
and the
SPARK MAX
for more information.
Why don't the settings save on my SPARK MAX?
Be sure to always click Persist Perimeters (formerly: Burn Flash) to
save the settings
through the REV Hardware Client!
A SPARK MAX's parameters can also be overwritten within your code, so ensure you also burn flash after any changes in your program too. Any settings that had been modified and not persisted will reset when the SPARK MAX is power cycled.
NEO V1.1
What are general best practices for the NEO V1.1?
REV's NEO V1.1 Tips and Tricks
Use care when removing the sensor wire from a SPARK MAX. Firmly gripping all 6 of the wires as close to the JST connector as possible and pulling evenly generally gives best results. If needed you can also use a small tool to pry or grab the plastic notches of the JST Connector.
Periodically check the NEO's phase and data wires for noticeable damage to the wire insulation or connectors. Exposed wire on your robot runs the risk of a possible short to your system.
Keep the NEO clear from any debris, especially those that could get caught in the mechanism it is driving or affect your wiring.
Route all wires with proper strain relief to avoid damage or unintentional disconnects from tension.
MAXPlanetary Gearbox Cartridges are pre-lubricated and sealed. If during maintenance you find that a cartridge needs more grease, we recommend using a Molybdenum Grease to apply more lubrication such as
Synthetic NLGI #2 Molybdenum Grease
or
MOLYKOTE® G-2008 Synthetic Tool Gear Grease
.
What Smart Current Limit should I set for my NEO V1.1?
Generally we recommend 40A - 60A
But this setting will be dependent on the application you've assigned to the NEO v1.1. Is the motor acting as the main drive motor on a MAXSwerve Module? Or is it actuating the elbow on your arm mechanism? Please briefly reference our
NEO Motor Locked Rotor Testing
.
Say for example you have four NEO v1.1s assigned as the main drive motors on MAXSwerve Modules for your robot, and the Smart Current Limit is set to 60A. If your robot is pushing against an object causing the NEO v1.1s to experience stalling, potential motor failure would occur at approximately 105 seconds due to the build up of thermal energy. Realistically, setting the Smart Current Limit to 20A and gradually increasing the amperage enough to break traction with the ground is adequate.
Another example would be if you have one NEO v1.1, and your team has decided to set the Smart Current Limit past the recommended 60A for an arm mechanism. While the the motor is capable of preforming past 60A, if your arm mechanism is stuck on some game structure the window of motor failure is shorter than 105 seconds.
How do I make a NEO V1.1 compatible with the new SPARK FLEX Motor Controllers?
We have a solution coming soon! The SPARK Flex Dock will...
The SPARK Flex Dock will allow a SPARK Flex to control any existing NEO or compatible brushless/brushed DC motor by converting it to a standalone motor controller!
Stay tuned to our website for updates on its release!
Can I run a NEO V1.1 on 24V?
This is possible but we strongly recommend...
Before running a NEO V1.1 at a 24V, we recommend first confirming that the motor controller that will drive it can also work at 24V as well.
When a NEO is run at higher voltages, its specifications will also scale. All of the data listed on the product page and motor testing was run at 12V, so, when running a NEO at 24V you would need to double the values.
For example:
Free Speed @ 12V - 5676 RPM
Free Speed @ 24V - 11352 RPM
NEO 550 FAQ
What are general best practices for the NEO 550?
REV's NEO 550 Tips and Tricks
Use care when removing the sensor wire from a SPARK MAX. Firmly gripping all 6 of the wires as close to the JST connector as possible and pulling evenly generally gives best results. If needed you can also use a small tool to pry or grab the plastic notches of the JST Connector.
Periodically check the NEO  550's phase and data wires for noticeable damage to the wire insulation or connectors. Exposed wire on your robot runs the risk of a possible short to your system.
Keep the NEO 550 clear from any debris, especially those that could get caught in the mechanism it is driving or affect your wiring.
Route all wires with proper strain relief to avoid damage or unintentional disconnects from tension.
UltraPlanetary Gearbox Cartridges are pre-lubricated and sealed. If during maintenance you find that a cartridge needs more grease, we recommend using a Molybdenum Grease to apply more lubrication such as
Synthetic NLGI #2 Molybdenum Grease
or
MOLYKOTE® G-2008 Synthetic Tool Gear Grease
.
When pressing a pinion on your NEO 550 shaft, taken care to not over press the pinion or dislodge the motor's shaft. Take a look at our
Pinion Pressing guide
for assistance.
What Smart Current Limit should I set for my NEO 550?
Generally we recommend 20A - 40A
But this setting will be dependent on the application you've assigned to the NEO 550. Is the motor being used as a steering motor on a swerve drive? Or is the motor being utilized to articulate a part of your intake? Please briefly reference our
NEO 550 Motor Locked Rotor Testing
Say for example you have four NEO 550s assigned as the steering motors on MAXSwerve Modules for your robot, and the Smart Current Limit is set to 40A. If field debris impedes your robot is from completing its turn causing the NEO 550 to experience stalling, potential motor failure would occur at approximately 27 seconds due to the build up of thermal energy. However, setting the Smart Current Limit to 20A increases this window to 220 seconds, which should withstand most stall encounters.
Previous
Quick Links
Next
Brushless DC Motor Basics
Last updated
7 months ago
Was this helpful?