REV ION Brushless
REV ION Brushless Overview
Quick Links
Frequently Asked Questions
NEO Brushless Motors
Brushless DC Motor Basics
NEO Vortex
Docking a SPARK Flex
Vortex Shafts
Installing a Shaft
NEO Vortex Solo Adapter
NEO V1.1
NEO V1
Pinion Pressing Guides
NEO 550
Pinion Pressing Guide
Dynamometer Testing
Motor Comparison
SPARK Flex Motor Controller
SPARK Flex Overview
Flex Dock
SPARK Flex Specifications
SPARK Flex Feature Description
Power and Motor Connections
Control Connections
Data Port
Mounting Holes
Control Interfaces
Mode Button
Operating Modes
SPARK Flex Getting Started
Wiring the SPARK Flex
Make it Spin!
Basic Configurations
SPARK Flex Status LED Patterns
SPARK Flex Troubleshooting
SPARK Flex Operating Modes
SPARK MAX Motor Controller
SPARK MAX Overview
SPARK MAX Specifications
Power and Motor Connections
Control Connections
Encoder Port
Data Port
SPARK MAX Getting Started
Wiring the SPARK MAX
Make it Spin!
Basic Configurations
SPARK MAX Status LED Patterns
SPARK MAX Troubleshooting
SPARK MAX Operating Modes
SPARK MAX Control Interfaces
SPARK MAX Configuration Parameters
Using Encoders with the SPARK MAX
Absolute Encoders
Alternate Encoder Mode
Securing the Encoder Adapters
Calibration for MAXSwerve
REVLib
REVLib Overview
Migrating to REVLib 2025
Closed-Loop Control
REVLib Code Examples (2025)
Tips and Tricks
Anderson Powerpole Connectors
REV Hardware Client Documentation
Legacy Documentation
SPARK Motor Controller
SPARK MAX Client
Navigating the SPARK MAX Client
Updating Device Firmware
Recovery Mode with the SPARK MAX Client
SPARK MAX Client Troubleshooting
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Power On
Connect to the SPARK MAX
Basic Setup and Configuration
Set the Motor Type
Limiting Current
Save the Settings
Spin the Motor
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
Power On
Now that the device is wired, and the connections carefully checked, power on the robot. You should see the SPARK MAX slowly blinking its for a new device the color will be Magenta. If the LED is dark, or you see a different blink pattern, refer to the
Status LED
guide for troubleshooting.
If you are using a brushed motor, you may see a sensor error. This is expected until you configure the device to accept a brushed motor in the following steps.
Connect to the SPARK MAX
Plug in the USB cable and start the REV Hardware Client. Select the SPARK MAX from the Connected Hardware.
If you can not see the SPARK MAX, make sure that the SPARK MAX is not being used by another application. Then unplug the SPARK MAX from the computer and plug it back in.
Basic Setup and Configuration
Before any parameters can be changed, you
must
first assign a unique CAN ID to the device. This can be any number between 1 and 63. After setting a unique CAN ID, the user interface will refresh and allow you to change other parameters.
Eventually you may set up a CAN network on your test bench or robot. Be sure each device on the network has a unique CAN ID. It is helpful to label each device with its ID number to aid in troubleshooting.
Set the Motor Type
If you are using a NEO or NEO 550, verify that the motor type is set to
REV NEO Brushless
, Sensor Type is
Hall Effect
, and the LED is blinking Magenta or Cyan.
If you see a
Sensor Fault
blink code, make sure the encoder cable is plugged in completely.
If you are running brushed motor, set the motor type to
Brushed
and the sensor type will change to
Quadrature
, and verify that the LED is blinking Yellow or Blue.
Limiting Current
There are two ways to protect your robot’s motors from electrical damage in high-current situations: Circuit Breakers and the SPARK MAX’s Smart Current Limit Setting. To protect your motors from currents that are too high, it is a best practice to limit your current both with the SPARK MAX’s Smart Current Limit
and
an appropriately rated circuit breaker.
Circuit breakers, while an extremely important part of a robot's wiring and safety, are only designed to trip at a specific temperature, after a set amount of time, to protect the electrical system from fire or other electrical hazards. Due to this, we recommend setting a Smart Current Limit to protect your motors from damage due to high currents.
The SPARK MAX Motor Controller includes a Smart Current Limit feature that can adjust the applied output to the motor to maintain a constant phase current.
Out of the box, the SPARK MAX's Smart Current Limit default setting is 80A for any motor that you use. We recommend utilizing our locked-rotor testing data or the table below to decide what to set your Smart Current Limit to for your robot: Locked-Rotor Testing for the
NEO (REV-21-1650)
and
NEO 550 (REV-21-1651)
.
Remember that some settings, like Smart Current Limit, must be burned to flash via code or the Hardware Client in order to be retained through a power cycle of the SPARK MAX.
Suggested Current Limits
Your ideal current limit may vary based on your specific application, but these values can be used as a starting point to reduce the chance of an overload on your motor as you begin tuning your specific mechanism's Smart Current Limit.
Motor Type
Current Limit Range
NEO (
REV-21-1650
)
40A - 60A
NEO 550 (
REV-21-1651
)
20A - 40A
Warning: Setting current limits outside of the suggested ranges listed above may cause unintended overload and severe damage to components that are not covered by warranty.
Save the Settings
The settings must be saved for the SPARK MAX to remember its new configuration through a power cycle. To do this, press the
Burn Flash
button at the bottom of the page. It will take a few seconds to save, indicated by the loading symbol on the button.
As of REV Hardware Client version 1.7.0, "Burn Flash" has been renamed to "Persist Perimeters"!
Any settings saved this way will be remembered when the device is powered back on. You can always restore the factory defaults if you need to reset the device.
Spin the Motor
Before running any motor, make sure all components are in a safe state, that the motor is secured, and that anyone nearby is aware. FRC motors are very powerful and can quickly cause damage to people and property.
Keep the CAN cable disconnected throughout the test. For safety reasons, the REV Hardware Client will not run the motor if the roboRIO is connected. If the roboRIO was connected, power cycle the SPARK MAX.
To spin the motor, go to the Run tab, keep all of the default settings and press
Run
Motor.
The
setpoint
is 0 by default, meaning that the motor is being commanded to
idle
(0% power). When you press
Run
you should see the LED go from slow blinking to solid, indicating that the motor is idling.
Slowly
ramp the setpoint slider up. The motor should start to spin and you should see a green blink pattern proportional to the speed you have set to the motor. Slowly ramp the slider down. The motor should spin in reverse, and you should see a red blink pattern proportional to the speed you have set to the motor.
If you are unable to spin the motor, visit our
troubleshooting guide
.
Previous
Wiring the SPARK MAX
Next
Basic Configurations
Last updated
1 month ago
Was this helpful?