REV ION Brushless
REV ION Brushless Overview
Quick Links
Frequently Asked Questions
NEO Brushless Motors
Brushless DC Motor Basics
NEO Vortex
Docking a SPARK Flex
Vortex Shafts
Installing a Shaft
NEO Vortex Solo Adapter
NEO V1.1
NEO V1
Pinion Pressing Guides
NEO 550
Pinion Pressing Guide
Dynamometer Testing
Motor Comparison
SPARK Flex Motor Controller
SPARK Flex Overview
Flex Dock
SPARK Flex Specifications
SPARK Flex Feature Description
Power and Motor Connections
Control Connections
Data Port
Mounting Holes
Control Interfaces
Mode Button
Operating Modes
SPARK Flex Getting Started
Wiring the SPARK Flex
Make it Spin!
Basic Configurations
SPARK Flex Status LED Patterns
SPARK Flex Troubleshooting
SPARK Flex Operating Modes
SPARK MAX Motor Controller
SPARK MAX Overview
SPARK MAX Specifications
Power and Motor Connections
Control Connections
Encoder Port
Data Port
SPARK MAX Getting Started
Wiring the SPARK MAX
Make it Spin!
Basic Configurations
SPARK MAX Status LED Patterns
SPARK MAX Troubleshooting
SPARK MAX Operating Modes
SPARK MAX Control Interfaces
SPARK MAX Configuration Parameters
Using Encoders with the SPARK MAX
Absolute Encoders
Alternate Encoder Mode
Securing the Encoder Adapters
Calibration for MAXSwerve
REVLib
REVLib Overview
Migrating to REVLib 2025
Closed-Loop Control
REVLib Code Examples (2025)
Tips and Tricks
Anderson Powerpole Connectors
REV Hardware Client Documentation
Legacy Documentation
SPARK Motor Controller
SPARK MAX Client
Navigating the SPARK MAX Client
Updating Device Firmware
Recovery Mode with the SPARK MAX Client
SPARK MAX Client Troubleshooting
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Brushless vs. Brushed Motor Basics
Key Terms
General Application Information
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
DC Motors consist of two major parts, the part that rotates, or the “rotor”, and the part that is stationary, or the “stator”. A DC motor uses these parts to convert electrical energy into rotational mechanical energy using electricity and permanent magnets. Two types of DC motors are used in FIRST Robotics Competition: Brushed DC Motors and Brushless DC motors. Both types are useful in various robot applications, and both have their trade-offs.
Brushless vs. Brushed Motor Basics
Operating a brushed DC motor is simple; provide DC electrical power and the motor spins. In a brushed motor, the rotor consists of electrical winding wires and the stator consists of permanent magnets. Since the electrical part is spinning, there needs to be a way to connect the external power wires to the spinning rotor. This is accomplished through conductive “brushes” that make contact with the stator, automatically sequencing the power to make the rotor spin. Brushes make it easy on us, but they produce extra friction which reduces the efficiency of the motor.
Brushless DC motors don’t have brushes. They still have both electrical winding wires and permanent magnets, but the locations are flipped. The stator now consists of the electrical parts, and the spinning rotor consists of the magnets. This means there is no more brush friction within the motor, making a brushless motor more power-efficient. However, you can’t just give it DC power and expect it to spin. Without the brushes doing the sequencing for us, you must use a specialized motor controller that is designed for brushless motors to properly sequence the power and get the rotor spinning.
The REV NEO Brushless Motor runs an 8mm keyed output shaft which allows for an easy transition from CIM-style brushed motors into brushless.
Swap a set of NEO Brushless Motors into your drivetrain or use one in an elevator to save weight and maintain peak performance. When paired with the SPARK MAX, you can use the integrated hall-effect sensors to calculate incremental position or speed from the NEO.
Key Terms
Stall Torque
Stall Current
Free Speed
Operating Voltage
Stall Torque
is measured when the motors RPM is zero and the motor is drawing its full
Stall Current
. This value is the maximum torque the motor is ever capable of outputting. Keep in mind the motor is not capable of outputting this torque for an indefinite period of time. Waste energy will be released into the motor as heat. When the motor is producing more waste heat than the motor body is capable of dissipating the motor will eventually overheat and fail.
Stall Current
is the maximum amount of current the motor will draw. The stall current is measured at the point when the motor has torque that the RPM goes down to zero. This is also the point at which the most waste heat will be dissipated into the motor body.
Free Speed
is the
angular velocity
that a motor will spin at when powered at the
Operating Voltage
with zero load on the motor’s output shaft. This RPM is the fastest
angular velocity
the motor will ever spin at. Once the motor is under load its
angular velocity
will decrease.
Operating Voltage
is the expected voltage that the motor will experience during operation. If a robot is built using a 12 volt battery the
Operating Voltage
of the motor will be 12 volts. When controlling the RPM of the motor the DC speed controller will modulate the effective voltage seen by the motor. The lower the voltage seen by the motor the slower it will spin. DC motors have a maximum rated voltage if this voltage is exceeded the motor will fail prematurely.
The key metrics defined above are interrelated. Take some time to familiarize yourself with the definitions and how they connect together.
General Application Information
In order to ensure that an electric motor lasts as long as possible a few rules of thumb should be kept in mind:
Smooth loading
- large torque spikes or sudden changes in direction can cause excess wear and premature failure of gearbox components. This is only an issue when the torque spike exceeds the rated stall torque of the motor. When shock loading is necessary, it is best to utilize mechanical braking or a hard stop that absorbs the impact instead of the motor.
Overheating
- when a motor is loaded at near its maximum operating torque it will produce more waste heat than when operating at a lower operating torque. If this heat this allowed to build up the motor can wear out prematurely or fail spontaneously.
Poorly supported output shaft
, most motor output shafts are not designed to take large thrust forces or forces normal to the shaft. Bearings need to be used to support the axle when loads in these directions are expected.
Previous
Frequently Asked Questions
Next
NEO Vortex
Last updated
1 year ago
Was this helpful?