REV ION Brushless
REV ION Brushless Overview
Quick Links
Frequently Asked Questions
NEO Brushless Motors
Brushless DC Motor Basics
NEO Vortex
Docking a SPARK Flex
Vortex Shafts
Installing a Shaft
NEO Vortex Solo Adapter
NEO V1.1
NEO V1
Pinion Pressing Guides
NEO 550
Pinion Pressing Guide
Dynamometer Testing
Motor Comparison
SPARK Flex Motor Controller
SPARK Flex Overview
Flex Dock
SPARK Flex Specifications
SPARK Flex Feature Description
Power and Motor Connections
Control Connections
Data Port
Mounting Holes
Control Interfaces
Mode Button
Operating Modes
SPARK Flex Getting Started
Wiring the SPARK Flex
Make it Spin!
Basic Configurations
SPARK Flex Status LED Patterns
SPARK Flex Troubleshooting
SPARK Flex Operating Modes
SPARK MAX Motor Controller
SPARK MAX Overview
SPARK MAX Specifications
Power and Motor Connections
Control Connections
Encoder Port
Data Port
SPARK MAX Getting Started
Wiring the SPARK MAX
Make it Spin!
Basic Configurations
SPARK MAX Status LED Patterns
SPARK MAX Troubleshooting
SPARK MAX Operating Modes
SPARK MAX Control Interfaces
SPARK MAX Configuration Parameters
Using Encoders with the SPARK MAX
Absolute Encoders
Alternate Encoder Mode
Securing the Encoder Adapters
Calibration for MAXSwerve
REVLib
REVLib Overview
Migrating to REVLib 2025
Closed-Loop Control
REVLib Code Examples (2025)
Tips and Tricks
Anderson Powerpole Connectors
REV Hardware Client Documentation
Legacy Documentation
SPARK Motor Controller
SPARK MAX Client
Navigating the SPARK MAX Client
Updating Device Firmware
Recovery Mode with the SPARK MAX Client
SPARK MAX Client Troubleshooting
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Anderson Connector Housing
Anderson Contacts
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
Anderson Powerpole connectors are a popular choice in the FIRST community for electrical connections. Ensuring that these connectors are crimped properly and the contact is fully inserted into the housing is key to having a good electrical connection.
Anderson Powerpole Connectors consist of two major parts: the
housing
and
contact.
There are a number of different housings and contacts depending on the power requirements of the system. The most common housing and contact used with the SPARK MAX is the 1327 series housing paired with the 45 amp contacts.
Anderson Connector Housing
The housings for the connectors are genderless allowing all powerpole connectors to mate with themselves. The 1327 series housing can utilize contacts rated for 15-45 amps. Housings come in a variety of colors allowing for easy pairings with the wire color.
Dovetails on each housing allow them to slide together. Do not attempt to snap the housings together as they can break. After the housings are mated together adding a roll pin prevents the housings from become detached during operation. Each housing is fitted with a spring to retain the contacts after they are inserted
Anderson Contacts
1327 series housings can use contacts rated for between 15 and 45 amps. The 45 amp contacts are used with the SPARK MAX. When striping wire for the contact, make sure the stripped wire is the length of the large flap. No wire should extend past the large flap into the gap between the large and small flaps on the contact. Utilize a proper crimping tool when crimping on the connector.
Having too much wire exposed can cause issues with proper placement of the contact in the housing. This can lead to bad connections. If the contacts are not fully inserted into the housing the contact connection issues can arise. The images above are examples of good crimps with the proper amount of wire inserted into the contact.
Having improper placement of the contact in the housing can lead to intermittent brownouts of the SPARK MAX, the contact dislodging from the housing, or have cause problems with one or more of the phases of a brushless motor.
For more information on powerpole assembly see the
Powerwerx
instructions.
Previous
Calibration for MAXSwerve
Next
SPARK Motor Controller
Last updated
1 year ago
Was this helpful?