All pages
Powered by GitBook
1
of
1
Loading...
Introduction
The REV Control Hub is an affordable robotics controller providing a platform for the interfaces required for building robots. The Control Hub works with the Expansion Hub and Driver Hub to create a complete robotics control system for both the classroom and the competition. These devices are most commonly used within the FIRST Tech Challenge (FTC), FIRST Global Challenge (FGC), and in the classroom for educational purposes.
How to use this documentation?
This documentation is intended as the place to answer any questions related to the REV Robotics Control Hub, Driver Hub, and Expansion Hub used in the FIRST Tech Challenge and FIRST Global Challenge.
Looking to get an idea of how to use the system before your Control Hub arrives?
Reading through each section will help, but we specifically recommend the guides on
getting started with the Control Hub
and the
programming language options
section.
Have a specific question?
Feel free to head straight to it using the navigation bar to the left. Each section is grouped with other topics that are similar.
Having trouble finding what you are looking for?
Try the search bar in the upper right or read the section descriptions below to find the best fit.
Getting started building robots can be an intimidating process. The following documentation is here to make getting started a bit easier. There are a number of examples to get started with the Control System and we are committed to adding content to make it more accessible for people to use REV.

If there is a question that is not answered by this space, send our support team an email;
[email protected]
. We are happy to help point you in the right direction.
What is in each section?
‌System Overview
‌This section contains information regarding all of the major mechanical specifications of the REV
Control Hub
and
Expansion Hub
. These sections include
port pinout
information,
protection features
, and the
types of cables
used with the devices.
Getting Started
Take the Control Hub or Expansion Hub from out of the box through generating the first configuration file. This includes the process for changing your
Control Hub's Name and Password
as well as
connecting to your Driver Hub
. Also includes information on ways to add additional motors to the control system through adding a
SPARKmini Motor Controller
or an
Expansion Hub
.
Updating and Managing
This section covers how the information needed to keep your Control Hub, Expansion Hub, and Driver Hub up to date with the latest software. This section also includes information on using the REV Hardware Client to update, program, and manage these devices as well.
Programming
From just getting started by writing your
first OpMode
to working with
closed loop control
, this section covers the information needed to start programming.
Sensors
Sensors
are often vital for robots to gather information about the world around them. Use this section to find how to use REV sensors and information on the different sensor types.