DUO Control System
Introduction
Getting Started with Control Hub
Connect to the Robot Controller Console
Updating Wi-Fi Settings
Connecting Driver Station to Control Hub
Wiring Diagram
Next Steps
Getting Started with Driver Hub
Adding More Motors
SPARKmini Motor Controller
Adding an Expansion Hub
Troubleshooting the Control System
General Troubleshooting
Control Hub Troubleshooting
Driver Hub Troubleshooting
Driver Hub Battery Troubleshooting
Expansion Hub Troubleshooting
Status LED Blink Codes
12V Battery Best Practices and Troubleshooting
System Overview
Control Hub Specifications
Expansion Hub Specifications
Driver Hub Specifications
Port Pinouts
Protection Features
Cables and Connectors
XT-30 - Power Cable
JST VH - Motor Power
JST PH - Sensors and RS485
Integrated Sensors
Dimensions and Important Component Locations
Updating and Managing
Managing Wi-Fi on the Control Hub
REV Hardware Client
Updating Firmware
Firmware Changelog
Updating Operating System
Control Hub Operating System Changelog
Updating Robot Controller Application
Updating Robot Controller Application via Android Studio
Updating the Driver Hub
Driver Hub OS - Change Log
Accessing Log Files
Android Studio - Deploying Code Wirelessly
Hello Robot - Intro to Blocks Programming
Welcome to Hello Robot!
Where to Program - Client vs. Browser
What is an OpMode?
Setting up a Configuration
Common Errors in Configuration
Using a Gamepad
Part 1: Tackling the Basics
Tackling the Basics Directory - Blocks
Creating an OpMode - Blocks
Programming Essentials
Programming Servos
Programming Servo Basics
Using a Gamepad with a Servo
Programming Servo Telemetry
Programming Motors
Programming Motors Basics
Programming a Motor with a Gamepad
Programming Motor Telemetry
Programming Touch Sensors
Programming Color Sensors
Color Sensor Telemetry
Detecting Color
Part 2: Robot Control
Robot Control Blocks Directory
Programming Drivetrain Motors
Arcade Style TeleOp - Blocks
Establishing Variables in Blocks
Motor Power vs. Robot Movement
Programming Arcade Drive
Arm Control - Blocks
Adding a Limit Switch
Robot Control Full Program
Part 3: Autonomous and Encoders
ElapsedTime - Blocks
ElapsedTime Setup
ElapsedTime Logic
ElapsedTime - Multiple Movements
Encoder Basics
Drivetrain Encoders - Blocks
Converting Encoder Ticks to a Distance
Moving to a Target Distance
Setting Velocity
Turning the Drivetrain Using RUN_TO_POSITION
Arm Control with Encoders - Blocks
Estimating the Position of the Arm
Calculating Target Position
Using Limits to Control Range of Motion
Part 4: Going Beyond!
Exploring Functions
Programming Mecanum - Simplified
Programming Mecanum - Refined
Hello Robot - Intro to OnBot Java Programming
Welcome to Hello Robot!
Where to Program - Client vs. Browser
What is an OpMode?
Setting up a Configuration
Common Errors in Configuration
Using a Gamepad
Part 1: Tackling the Basics
Tackling the Basics Directory - OnBot
Creating an OpMode - OnBot
Programming Essentials
Programming Servos
Programming Servo Basics
Using a Gamepad with a Servo
Programming Servo Telemetry
Programming Motors
Programming Motor Basics
Programming a Motor with a Gamepad
Programming Motor Telemetry
Programming Touch Sensors
Programming Color Sensors
Color Sensor Telemetry
Detecting Color
Part 2: Robot Control
Robot Control OnBot Java Directory
Programming Drivetrain Motors
Arcade Style TeleOp - OnBot Java
Establishing Variables in OnBot Java
Motor Power vs. Robot Movement
Programming Arcade Drive
Arm Control - OnBot Java
Adding a Limit Switch
Robot Control Full Program
Part 3: Autonomous and Encoders
ElapsedTime - OnBot Java
ElapsedTime Setup
ElapsedTime Logic
ElapsedTime - Multiple Movements
Encoder Basics
Drivetrain Encoders - OnBot Java
Converting Encoder Ticks to a Distance
Moving to a Target Distance
Setting Velocity
Turning the Drivetrain Using RUN_TO_POSITION
Arm Control with Encoders - OnBot Java
Estimating the Position of the Arm
Calculating Target Position
Using Limits to Control Range of Motion
Sensors
Introduction to Sensors
Digital
Analog
I2C
IMU
Orientating the IMU
Adding an External IMU to your Hub
Encoders
REV Motor Encoders
Through Bore Encoder
Using 3rd Party Sensors
Sensor Compatibility Chart
Useful Links
REV DUO Build System
Legacy Documentation
Configuring Your Android Devices
Expansion Hub with Android Device Robot Controller
Driver Station and Robot Controller Pairing
Wiring Diagram
Configuration
REV Hub Interface Software
Powered by GitBook
On this page
General Best Practices
ESD Mitigation Techniques
USB Port Care
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
One of the key aspects of troubleshooting is understanding the most common issues that occur in a system. Once those problems, and their indicators, are defined a flow has to be created. For example, a check engine light in a car indicates any number of issues. When a cars check engine light comes on, a mechanic pulls the codes from the car to narrow down the issue to a specific part of the engine. Even if the code leads to a specific part of the engine, like the transmission, it is not always indicative of the exact problem. However, there is a process flow. Each step narrows down the problem to a potential solution. Troubleshooting the REV Control system is no different!
The status LED is the REV Control System equivalent to the check engine light mentioned in the example.
Visit the
LED Blink Code
section to understand what each code is and what it indicates.
Many issues can be solved by systematic troubleshooting without needing to contact REV Support. Take a look at the troubleshooting tips below for help in determining the cause of the issue you are seeing. Should you need to contact us, describing the steps you've taken in detail will help us get you up and running quickly. The section is divided into general best practices, Control Hub (
REV-31-1595
) troubleshooting and Expansion Hub (
REV-31-1153
)
troubleshooting.
General Best Practices
Before diving into common troubleshooting paths its important to understand the general guidelines, or best practices, for Control System Health.
Charge the Battery
- While a charged battery and phone are crucial to a healthy control system in general; it is also helpful to ensure batteries and phones are charged before a match.
Update
-  The applications, firmware, and operating system have periodic updates to improve the control system. Keeping the control system up to date ensures the best performance!
Isolate the Issue -
This is key to effective troubleshooting. Many issues can show the same symptom, so eliminating failure points one at a time is critical to finding the root cause.
DO NOT plug a battery charger into either the Control Hub or Expansion Hub. It will damage the Hub and cause eventual device failure
Maintaining and taking care of the 12V Slim Battery is also important for troubleshooting purposes. All rechargeable batteries have a finite lifespan however following the
best practices for the 12V Slim Battery
can extend the lifespan of the battery.
ESD Mitigation Techniques
During Match Play or practice on a competition field, some FTC teams may encounter Electrostatic Discharge (ESD) between the foam tiles and the robots. Below are some methods to help mitigate the effects that any ESD may have on your robot.
Ensure that you plug USB devices, such as a Camera, into USB 3.0 Port on your Control Hub. Using the USB 2.0 Port may cause ESD to affect your Control Hub's Wi-Fi Chip
Add a
Resistive Grounding Strap
, the 470Ω resistor will help minimize high discharge events from robot electronics and the frame
Treat the practice area with an anti-static spray
Other ESD mitigation strategies can be found within the documentation provided by
FIRST
:
Managing Electrostatic Discharge Effects
USB Port Care
Regular maintenance of your DUO Control System's USB ports will help prevent issues in the future. Here are a few tips to make sure your hardware stays in good shape.
When plugging in USB cables, don't force the connector too roughly. This can push the USB port into the Control Hub or Driver Hub
Be sure to keep all ports clean and free of debris. Before cleaning with compressed air, be sure to turn off your device
When transporting or storing a Driver Hub, remove all USB cables from the ports
Don't wrap USB cables that are plugged in around the Driver Hub! This will put stress on the USB ports and is the most common cause of USB port damage
Previous
Adding an Expansion Hub
Next
Control Hub Troubleshooting
Last updated
12 months ago
Was this helpful?