REV DUO Build System
REV DUO Build System Overview
Structure
Introduction to Structure
15mm Extrusion
15mm x 30mm Extrusion
15mm x 45mm C Channel
45mm x 45mm U Channel
Flat Plate
Flat Beam
L Beam
Brackets
Corrugated Plastic Sheets
M3 Hardware
Motion
Introduction to Motion
Hex Shaft and Spacers
Bearings
Sprockets and Chain
Advanced Sprockets and Chain
Chain Tool
Timing Belts and Pulleys
Gears
Advanced Gears
Wheels
Linear Motion
Choosing an Actuator
Motors
HD Hex Motor
Pinion Pressing Guide
Pinion Removal Guide
Core Hex Motor
Servos
Smart Robot Servo
Building Techniques
Tips and Tricks for Building
Supporting Motion
Constraining Motion
Compatibility
Build Guides
Linear Motion Kit
Three Stage Cascading Lift
Three Stage Continuous Lift
Channel Drivetrain
Single Sprocket Shaft Assembly
Double Sprocket Shaft Assembly
Drive Shaft Assembly
UltraPlanetary Gearbox Assembly
Making the Chain Links
Drive Rail Assembly
Final Assembly
Channel Drivetrain - Mecanum Upgrade
90mm Single Sprocket Shaft Assembly
75mm Single Sprocket Shaft Assembly
Drive Shaft Assembly
UltraPlanetary Gearbox Assembly
Making the Chain Links
Drive Rail Assembly
Final Assembly
Mecanum Wheel Setup and Behaviour
Mecanum Drivetrain V2
UltraPlanetary Gearbox Assembly
Drive Rail Assembly
Final Assembly
Mecanum Wheel Setup and Behavior
Mecanum Drivetrain Example Code
Mecanum Drivetrain Kit
UltraPlanetary Gearbox Assembly
Drive Rail Assembly
Final Assembly
Mecanum Wheel Setup and Behavior
Mecanum Drivetrain Example Code
Extrusion Chain Drivetrain
Pre-Loading Brackets
Traction Wheel Assembly
Omni Wheel Assembly
UltraPlanetary Gearbox Assembly
Internal Chassis Frame Assembly
Making the Chain Links
Final Assembly
Extrusion Gear Drivetrain
Pre-Loading Brackets
Omni Wheel Assembly
Middle Grip Wheel Assembly
Front Grip Wheel Assembly
Gear Idler Assembly
UltraPlanetary Gearbox Assembly
Internal Chassis Frame Assembly
Final Assembly
Class Bot V2
Pre-Loading Brackets
Internal Robot Frame Assembly
External Robot Frame Assembly
Wheel Assemblies
Arm Gear Assemblies
Arm Assemblies
Final Assembly
Class Bot
Pre-Loading Brackets
Internal Robot Frame Assembly
External Robot Frame Assembly
Wheel Assemblies
Arm Gear Assemblies
Arm Assemblies
Final Assembly
Electronics and Communication
REV Control System
Sensors
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
THREE STAGE CASCADING LIFT
Collect parts and tools
for Cascading string assembly. This guide builds a four-stage lift with a surgical Tubing (
REV-41-1163
) return. These parts are not included in the Linear Motion Kit v2 (
REV-45-1507
). You will also need the completed Basic Slide Assembly.
Images
Steps
Step 1
Drop the locknut (
REV-41-1361
)
into the slot on the top of the endcap. Slide the bolt through the pulley (
REV-41-1368
), pulley cover, and the endcap. Thread the bolt into the locknut and make sure you thread far enough into the endcap to have the end of the bolt supported by the endcap. This will act as a cantilever support and add strength to the pulley axle when it is under load.
Step 2
Add a pulley to the top of the first three extrusions. All pulleys must be on the same side of the assembled linear motion system.
Step 3
Repeat the previous step for the bottom of the last three extrusion pieces, but don’t add the pulley or the pulley cover.
On the bottom of the first piece of extrusion, add a M3 x 16mm bolt (
REV-41-1360
) and locknut by sliding the bolt into the extrusion channel. Secure it into place.
Step 4
Assemble Lift by securely attaching the stationary first stage extrusion to the frame of your robot using REV
plastic
or
metal
brackets.
Position a motor on the side next to the extrusion mounted to the frame.
Note: The motor needs a winding spool attached to it. Attachment of the pulley will vary depending on motor type. In this example, the REV Core Hex Motor (
REV-41-1300
) has a
5mm Hex Shaft
with a spool held in place with a pair of Shaft Collars (
REV-41-1327
).
Step 5
Attach a length of String (
REV-41-1162
) to the bolt post on the bottom of second stage. Run the string over the pulley at the top of the first stage and down to the winding spool. Secure the string onto the winding spool.
The line may be hard to get onto the pulley with the pulley cover attached, but it is not impossible.
An easier but more time-consuming alternative to get the line onto the pulley is to remove the pulley axle bolt and slip the pulley out from inside the pulley cover. Attach the line around the pulley and slide it back into the pulley cover and reinsert the bolt and tighten.
Step 6
Attach a length of string to the bolt post on the bottom of first stage. Run the string over the pulley at the top of the second stage. Attach the string to the bolt post at the bottom of the third stage.
Step 7
Attach a length of string to the bolt post on the bottom of second stage. Run the string over the pulley at the top of the third stage. Attach the string to the bolt post at the bottom of the fourth stage.
Step 8
To set up the surgical tubing return system, add bolts on the back side of the endcaps from where you just attached the drive lines. The bolts will mount just like the anchor bolts for the drive lines you mounted earlier in Step 3. Mount one at the base of the first piece of extrusion, and two more in each of the first two end caps.
Step 9
Add bolts to the second and third endcaps like the last step, and a third at the top of the last stage, similarly to the last step as well.
Step 10
Push a screw into an end of the surgical tubing.
Step 11
With string tightly wrap the surgical tubing onto the screw and tie it off. Then tie a loop of string such that the loop can be hooked over a screw post.
*
alternatively, you can simply tie an end loop knot in the end of the surgical tubing.
Step 12
On the back side of the lift, opposite the drive lines, attach 3 surgical tube lengths to the anchor bolts in the end caps in an arrangement seen left.
Adjust the length of each piece to adjust the force that pulls the lift down. For a starting point, the surgical tubing should be just slightly in tension when the lift is in the closed position.
Done
Previous
Linear Motion Kit
Next
Three Stage Continuous Lift
Last updated
3 years ago
Was this helpful?