DUO Control System
Introduction
Getting Started with Control Hub
Connect to the Robot Controller Console
Updating Wi-Fi Settings
Connecting Driver Station to Control Hub
Wiring Diagram
Next Steps
Getting Started with Driver Hub
Adding More Motors
SPARKmini Motor Controller
Adding an Expansion Hub
Troubleshooting the Control System
General Troubleshooting
Control Hub Troubleshooting
Driver Hub Troubleshooting
Driver Hub Battery Troubleshooting
Expansion Hub Troubleshooting
Status LED Blink Codes
12V Battery Best Practices and Troubleshooting
System Overview
Control Hub Specifications
Expansion Hub Specifications
Driver Hub Specifications
Port Pinouts
Protection Features
Cables and Connectors
XT-30 - Power Cable
JST VH - Motor Power
JST PH - Sensors and RS485
Integrated Sensors
Dimensions and Important Component Locations
Updating and Managing
Managing Wi-Fi on the Control Hub
REV Hardware Client
Updating Firmware
Firmware Changelog
Updating Operating System
Control Hub Operating System Changelog
Updating Robot Controller Application
Updating Robot Controller Application via Android Studio
Updating the Driver Hub
Driver Hub OS - Change Log
Accessing Log Files
Android Studio - Deploying Code Wirelessly
Hello Robot - Intro to Blocks Programming
Welcome to Hello Robot!
Where to Program - Client vs. Browser
What is an OpMode?
Setting up a Configuration
Common Errors in Configuration
Using a Gamepad
Part 1: Tackling the Basics
Tackling the Basics Directory - Blocks
Creating an OpMode - Blocks
Programming Essentials
Programming Servos
Programming Servo Basics
Using a Gamepad with a Servo
Programming Servo Telemetry
Programming Motors
Programming Motors Basics
Programming a Motor with a Gamepad
Programming Motor Telemetry
Programming Touch Sensors
Programming Color Sensors
Color Sensor Telemetry
Detecting Color
Part 2: Robot Control
Robot Control Blocks Directory
Programming Drivetrain Motors
Arcade Style TeleOp - Blocks
Establishing Variables in Blocks
Motor Power vs. Robot Movement
Programming Arcade Drive
Arm Control - Blocks
Adding a Limit Switch
Robot Control Full Program
Part 3: Autonomous and Encoders
ElapsedTime - Blocks
ElapsedTime Setup
ElapsedTime Logic
ElapsedTime - Multiple Movements
Encoder Basics
Drivetrain Encoders - Blocks
Converting Encoder Ticks to a Distance
Moving to a Target Distance
Setting Velocity
Turning the Drivetrain Using RUN_TO_POSITION
Arm Control with Encoders - Blocks
Estimating the Position of the Arm
Calculating Target Position
Using Limits to Control Range of Motion
Part 4: Going Beyond!
Exploring Functions
Programming Mecanum - Simplified
Programming Mecanum - Refined
Hello Robot - Intro to OnBot Java Programming
Welcome to Hello Robot!
Where to Program - Client vs. Browser
What is an OpMode?
Setting up a Configuration
Common Errors in Configuration
Using a Gamepad
Part 1: Tackling the Basics
Tackling the Basics Directory - OnBot
Creating an OpMode - OnBot
Programming Essentials
Programming Servos
Programming Servo Basics
Using a Gamepad with a Servo
Programming Servo Telemetry
Programming Motors
Programming Motor Basics
Programming a Motor with a Gamepad
Programming Motor Telemetry
Programming Touch Sensors
Programming Color Sensors
Color Sensor Telemetry
Detecting Color
Part 2: Robot Control
Robot Control OnBot Java Directory
Programming Drivetrain Motors
Arcade Style TeleOp - OnBot Java
Establishing Variables in OnBot Java
Motor Power vs. Robot Movement
Programming Arcade Drive
Arm Control - OnBot Java
Adding a Limit Switch
Robot Control Full Program
Part 3: Autonomous and Encoders
ElapsedTime - OnBot Java
ElapsedTime Setup
ElapsedTime Logic
ElapsedTime - Multiple Movements
Encoder Basics
Drivetrain Encoders - OnBot Java
Converting Encoder Ticks to a Distance
Moving to a Target Distance
Setting Velocity
Turning the Drivetrain Using RUN_TO_POSITION
Arm Control with Encoders - OnBot Java
Estimating the Position of the Arm
Calculating Target Position
Using Limits to Control Range of Motion
Sensors
Introduction to Sensors
Digital
Analog
I2C
IMU
Orientating the IMU
Adding an External IMU to your Hub
Encoders
REV Motor Encoders
Through Bore Encoder
Using 3rd Party Sensors
Sensor Compatibility Chart
Useful Links
REV DUO Build System
Legacy Documentation
Configuring Your Android Devices
Expansion Hub with Android Device Robot Controller
Driver Station and Robot Controller Pairing
Wiring Diagram
Configuration
REV Hub Interface Software
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Required Materials
Battery Installation
Setting up the Driver Hub
Initial Update
Navigating the Driver Station Application
Tips and Tricks
Battery Best Practices
Connecting Gamepads
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
After receiving the Driver Hub it is advised to unbox the device, plug the Driver Hub in to charge over USB-C, and power on the Driver Hub. Below is the initial bring up process of the Driver Hub.
Required Materials
Driver Hub (
REV-31-1596
)
USB-A to USB-C Cable
USB-A Wall Charger
Battery Installation
To install the battery place it with the REV Logo out and the -/+ located near the contacts for the device. Add on the rear door and screw in using the included M3 hardware.
After setup, optimize your Driver Hub's battery life by following our
Battery Calibration
instructions! This process will ensure your Driver Hub and battery are tuned correctly after setting up.

Until then, we recommend allowing the battery to charge over USB-C or keeping the Driver Hub plugged into a power source during these next steps.
Setting up the Driver Hub
When the Driver Hub is first powered up, or a factory reset is performed, an initial set up process is needed. Start by selecting next on the main screen to continue.
Select a local Wi-Fi network that has access to the internet, enter in the password for that network if required, and select next.
Time zone and date of the device are set by the local Wi-Fi network. Confirm these settings are correct before proceeding by the Next button.
Initial set up is complete! Select Finish to operate the Driver Hub.
Initial Update
After setting up the Driver Hub, the Software Manager application will open. Select the Update All button to start the download and installation of software updates for the Driver Hub.
The updates can take several minutes to complete. Make sure the Driver Hub is charged or plug in the Driver Hub during the updating process.
Note:
Restricted networks, such as at a school or business, may prevent the Driver Hub from being able to update.
Now the Driver Hub is
ready to connect to a Control Hub
!

Don't forget to optimize your Driver Hub's battery by following our
Battery Calibration
instructions after you are done with your session today!
Navigating the Driver Station Application
Once the Driver Hub is connected to a Control Hub, you will have access to the entire Driver Station Application interface. Like any application, understanding the major components that make up the Driver Station Application interface, will maximize your ability to utilize the application efficiently. Consider the following components:
1
Initialize, start, and stop programs
Only available when a program has been selected.
2
Telemetry display
Displays telemetry outputs.
Displays any system warnings and error codes
3
Active configuration
Displays which configuration file is currently active.
If this section says
<no config file>
you will need to activate or
create a configuration file
.
4
Network information
Displays Control Hub SSID Name, signal strength, and ping time.
5
Gamepad connections.
See
Connecting Gamepads
for more information.
6
Autonomous drop down menu
Drop down menu that displays all autonomous programs saved on the Control Hub.
7
Teleop drop down menu
Drop down menu that displays all teleop programs saved on the Control Hub.
8
System power display
Displays the amount of battery voltage powering the robot, when connected to a Control Hub.
9
Settings drop down menu
Access settings, configure the robot, restart the robot, check to see if your system meets competition inspection requirements and more.
10
Practice Timer
A built in timer that can be used to to practice for different portions of a match.
Tips and Tricks
If you tap on area 4, it will switch to displaying the link speed and signal strength. It will go back to showing the signal strength and ping time if you tap it again.
The smaller number in area 8 is the lowest voltage that the Driver Station has observed from the Robot Controller. If you tap area 8, the lowest voltage will be reset to the current voltage.
Battery Best Practices
We suggest the following best practices to help optimize and preserve the health of your Driver Hub’s battery. It is not necessary to strictly follow these recommendations, however, consistently operating outside of these guidelines may lead to decreased performance.
If you are not using your Driver Hub any time soon, it is best to turn it off to minimize the battery usage.
Avoid temperature extremes, both high and low, when charging, using, or storing Driver Hub batteries. Elevated temperatures can accelerate degradation of the battery and can lead to significant safety risks. Although your Driver Hub is expected to get warm while charging, you should remove the Driver Hub from the charger if it becomes uncomfortably hot. It is also recommended to not charge the Driver Hub when the battery is 32°F/0°C or lower in order to best persevere battery health.
If you need a faster charge, using a PD 3.0 fast charger would decrease the charge time but is not recommended for continuous charging. To get the best battery health, We recommend charging your Driver Hub before the battery reaches 20% charge. It is also best to remove your Driver Hub from the charger within 24 hours of reaching 100%, this would be even more impactful if you are using a PD 3.0 fast charger.
Avoid use or storage of Driver Hubs in high-moisture environments, and avoid mechanical damage such as puncturing and impacts. Remove the battery from the Driver Hub for long term storage, such as over summer break. Store it in a dry temperature controlled environment around room temperature. To best preserve battery health, avoid storing the battery with low or no charge.
Connecting Gamepads
The Driver Station Application allows for the connection of two gamepads. When working with the Driver Hub these gamepads can be plugged into any of the three USB 2.0 ports. Once the gamepads are plugged in, you will need to initialize them. For the following example we will use PS4 controllers, such as the Etpark Wired Controller for PS4 (
REV-39-1865
).
To initialize the gamepad that will act as User 1 (gamepad1, in code) press the
options
button and the
X
button on the gamepad at the same time. To initialize User 2 ( gamepad2, in code) press the
options
button and the
O
button at the same time.
For the Logitech F310 Gaming Controller and Xbox 360 Controller for Windows, press
start
and
A
at the same time to initialize User 1 and
start
and
B
at the same time to initialize User 2.
Previous
Next Steps
Next
Adding More Motors
Last updated
2 months ago
Was this helpful?