REV ION Kickoff Concepts
2025 REV ION FRC Starter Bot
REEFSCAPE 2025
2025 Starter Bot Walkthrough
2025 REV ION Starter Bot Build Guide
Cut List
CRESCENDO 2024
2024 REV ION FRC Starter Bot
2024 REV ION Starter Bot Build Guide
MAXSwerve Drivetrain for 2024 Starter Bot
West Coast Drivetrain for 2024 Starter Bot
Example Code
Charged Up 2023
2023 REV ION FRC Starter Bot
2023 REV ION FRC Starter Bot Build Guide
2023 REV ION FRC West Coast Drivetrain Build Guide
Game Breakdown
Game Elements
Drivetrains
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Key Features
Drivetrain
Manipulator and Scoring Systems
Endgame
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
Key Features
Drivetrain
MAXSwerve gives the 2025 Starter Bot great maneuverability, allowing the robot to navigate the field in any direction. This makes tasks like aligning with the reef for coral scoring or repositioning in tight spaces easier. While we have chosen a swerve drive this year, we believe that a flat tank drive can also be an effective drivetrain this year. Direct path cycles without defense will exist since the majority of the scoring is on your side of the field.
Manipulator and Scoring Systems
Coral Handling
A single-stage elevator with an integrated wrist allows for the efficient intake of coral from the human player station with the ability to score on levels one, two, and three of the reef.
Our design emphasizes simplicity over scoring on all levels. Given the number of scoring locations for coral, we felt that the slightly lower max score was worth the trade-off for an easy-to-build, maintain (and repair) design. Teams who want to score on L4, can adjust the geometry of the wrist or add another stage to the elevator, both of which are changes that are accessible upgrades for this design.
Algae Intake
A floor intake mechanism mounted to the chassis streamlines the delivery of algae to the processor, allowing your team to contribute to cooperative scoring strategies. The intake subsystem is completely self-contained with both the deployment and intake motors both mounted to the intake itself so this can be left off or added later as desired.
Endgame
The current 2025 Starter Bot design doesn’t include an endgame mechanism. We felt that while the endgame is an important factor in this game the majority of the scoring will be from coral and algae. While not tested, we believe that teams can design or add cage hooks to the elevator to facilitate shallow cage climbs, expanding their capabilities without overhauling the robot.
Previous
2025 REV ION FRC Starter Bot
Next
2025 REV ION Starter Bot Build Guide
Last updated
7 months ago
Was this helpful?