REV ION Kickoff Concepts
2025 REV ION FRC Starter Bot
REEFSCAPE 2025
2025 Starter Bot Walkthrough
2025 REV ION Starter Bot Build Guide
Cut List
CRESCENDO 2024
2024 REV ION FRC Starter Bot
2024 REV ION Starter Bot Build Guide
MAXSwerve Drivetrain for 2024 Starter Bot
West Coast Drivetrain for 2024 Starter Bot
Example Code
Charged Up 2023
2023 REV ION FRC Starter Bot
2023 REV ION FRC Starter Bot Build Guide
2023 REV ION FRC West Coast Drivetrain Build Guide
Game Breakdown
Game Elements
Drivetrains
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Cones
Cubes
Charge Station
Substation Area
Alliance Area
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
Cones
Yellow rigid plastic cones are one of the game pieces for this year's CHARGED UP game. There are 54 cones total on the playing field, including in the Substation area. The average weight of the cones is approximately 1lb 7oz.
Cubes
Purple inflatable cubes are also one of the game pieces for this year's CHARGED UP game. There are 44 cubes total on the playing field, including in the Substation area. The average weight of the cubes is approximately 2.5oz.
Each cube is made of purple PVC fabric and is marked with a FIRST logo. A cube has rounded corners, may not have flat surfaces, and the length, width, and height of the sides may not be equal dimensions.
Cubes are expected to experience wear during matches, and small holes may be patched with electrical tape.
Charge Station
Each field has two Charge Stations, one for each alliance, located in their corresponding communities. Each Charge Station consists of the main pivoting frame, lead-in ramps, and support structure. The main pivoting frame is mounted to the base frame via a set of 4 double hinges.
A robot earns points for its alliance by docking on or engaging with its Charge Station.
Substation Area
A Substation is an assembly used to move game pieces, like cubes and cones, from humans to robots or onto the field. 

There are 2 types of Substations in each Substation Area: a Single Substation and a Double Substation. Each Substation contains a Portal- a three-dimensional volume through which humans transfer game pieces to robots or the field.
Each Alliance's Double Substation is attached to and in-line with their opponent’s Alliance Wall.
Each Single Substation is in-line with the guardrail.
Alliance Area
A 20ft wide by 9ft 10-1/4in deep infinitely tall volume, formed by, and including the Alliance Wall, edge of the carpet, and Alliance colored tape.
Previous
Game Breakdown
Next
Drivetrains
Last updated
2 years ago
Was this helpful?