REV ION Kickoff Concepts
2025 REV ION FRC Starter Bot
REEFSCAPE 2025
2025 Starter Bot Walkthrough
2025 REV ION Starter Bot Build Guide
Cut List
CRESCENDO 2024
2024 REV ION FRC Starter Bot
2024 REV ION Starter Bot Build Guide
MAXSwerve Drivetrain for 2024 Starter Bot
West Coast Drivetrain for 2024 Starter Bot
Example Code
Charged Up 2023
2023 REV ION FRC Starter Bot
2023 REV ION FRC Starter Bot Build Guide
2023 REV ION FRC West Coast Drivetrain Build Guide
Game Breakdown
Game Elements
Drivetrains
Powered by GitBook
On this page
2023 REV ION FRC Starter Bot Assembly Instructions
Cutting and Tapping
For ION West Coast Drive
For Kit of Parts Chassis
Universal
Gripper Subassembly
Moving Gripper Jaw
Left Side Structure
Right Side Structure
Crossmembers
Integration
Arm Subassembly
Gripper Pivot Tube
Arm Assembly
Gripper Integration
Tower Subassembly
Integration with Drivetrains
ION West Coast Drive
Kit of Parts Drivetrain
Universal
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
2023 REV ION FRC Starter Bot Assembly Instructions
Mechanism Bill of Materials
CAD Assembly - Onshape
Suggested Tools
and
Suggested Materials
Cutting and Tapping
Teams will need to cut and tap some pieces of structural tubing in order to build the 2023 REV ION FRC Starter Bot. The following sections detail the quantity and length needed for each type of extrusion.
Every piece of structural tubing needs to start with a hole 1/2in (or slightly less) from the end where the length measurement is taken FROM.
Example Cut Images
For ION West Coast Drive
2x1 Light MAXTube with Grid Pattern:
1x 22-1/2in (Tower Bottom Crossbar)
2x 2-1/2in (Tower Riser)
3/4in Dead Axle Tube:
2x 26-3/4in (Tower Brace)
For Kit of Parts Chassis
2x1 Light MAXTube with Grid Pattern:
1x 21-1/2in (Tower Bottom Crossbar)
2x 1-1/2in (Tower Riser)
3/4in Dead Axle Tube:
2x 26-7/8in (Tower Brace)
Universal
2x1 Light MAXTube:
1x 19-1/2in
1x 23-1/2in
2x1 MAXTube with MAX Pattern:
2x 13in
2x 9in
2x 23in (Stock Length)
2x 31in (Stock Length)
1x1 MAXTube:
2x 13-3/8in (one end must have a hole 1/2in from the edge of the tube)
1x 15in
1x1 MAXTube Cut Example for Universal Drivetrain
1/2in Rounded Hex Shaft (Tap Both Ends):
1x 1-1/2in
1x 15in
1x 18-1/2in
1x 20-1/2in
1x 20-3/4in
1x 20-7/8in
1x 23-1/4in
1x 25-5/8in
MAXSpline Shaft:
1x 22in
3/4in Dead Axle Tube:
1x 23-3/8in
#25 Chain:
2x 8in (32 links)
2x 46in (184 links- plus or minus a few links for the turnbuckles)
2x 72in (288 links- plus or minus a few links for the turnbuckles)
Gripper Subassembly
Moving Gripper Jaw
Build TWO of the following structures (described in steps 1-10).
1) Take the 13-3/8in long length of 1x1 MAXTube, and locate the end of the tube with a hole 1/2in from the end. This is the bottom end of the tube.
2) Fasten a plastic 1/2in hex MAXHub to the bottom end of the 1x1 MAXTube using 1-1/2in long #10-32 socket head cap screws and nylock nuts.
Tighten the screws very gently to avoid crushing the tube.
3) Match up the hole patterns on a 60T MAXSpline gear and a 2-position MAX Pattern Plate.
4) Insert four 1-5/8in long #10-32 button head cap screws through the gear and plate as shown. Three of the screws should pass through both the gear and the plate, and one screw goes through the plate only.
5) Slide the 1x1 MAXTube onto the two lower screws, with the MAXHub on the opposite side of the assembly from the gear.
6) Install two 1in long #10 plastic spacers on the top two screws.
7) Place a second 2-position MAX Pattern Plate on the opposite side of the 1x1 MAXTube with the screws inserted through the proper holes.
8) Fasten the assembly in place with #10-32 nylock nuts.
9) Install a rounded hex bearing in the gear.
10) Install a rounded hex bearing in the MAX Pattern Plate opposite the gear.

Set aside the two completed structures.
11) Slide seven 2in OD 1/2in hex bore compliant wheels onto the 15in long hex shaft.
12) Place the two structures that you set aside in step 10 on either side of the hex shaft and insert the shaft into each of the MAXHubs.
13) Fasten the hex shaft in place with a 1-1/4in long #10-32 button head screw on each end.
Take care not to crush the 1x1 MAXTube when tightening the screws.
14) Place the 15in long piece of 1x1 MAXTube between the two upright MAXTube 1x1s. Line the center row of holes up with the 10th hole down on the upright MAXTube 1x1s. 

This should mean the edge of the 15in MAXTube 1x1 is ~4-3/8in from the top end of the upright MAXTube 1x1s.
15) Place 90 Degree Brackets on either side of the MAXTubes as shown and fasten in place with 3/16in rivets.
Left Side Structure
1) Install two bearings into the 13in long 2x1 MAXTube with MAX Pattern. Place the bearings on either side of the tube, in the second hole from the end.
2) Install a Structural MAXHub on one side of the tube. This side is now the “outboard” side. 

Rotate the hub so that the threaded hole is aligned with the centerline of the tube and is located on the left side when viewing the hub from the outboard side of the tube.
3) Install a plastic 1/2in Hex MAXHub opposite the structural MAXHub on the "inboard" (or opposite) side of the tube. 

Rotate the hub so that the threaded hole is aligned with the centerline of the tube and is located on the left side when viewing the hub from the inboard side of the tube.
4) Fasten the two MAXHubs together with a combination of a 1in long #10-32 socket hex cap screw and a 1in long #10-32 button head cap screw. 
The socket head screw passes through the plastic MAXHub and threads into the Structural MAXHub. The button head screw passes through the Structural MAXHub and threads into the plastic MAXHub.
Take care not to over-tighten the screws and damage the tube or the MAXHubs.
5) Place a MAX Pattern T bracket on either side of the MAXTube. Line the brackets up with the last hole (on the opposite end of the tube from the MAXHubs) with the leg of the brackets facing downward. Fasten the brackets in place with 3/16in rivets.
6) Insert the end of the 9in long 2x1 MAXTube with MAX Pattern between the T brackets.
7) Stack up two MAXSpline Spacers with MAX Pattern and one 64T #25 Plate Sprocket. Align the MAX Patterns in all three parts.
8) Insert four 3in long #10-32 button head cap screws in the four corner holes of the MAX Pattern. Insert the screws through the sprocket first and then through the spacers.
9) Install the spacer and sprocket stack on the joint formed by the MAX Pattern T bracket and 9in long MAXTube. The stack should be installed on the outboard side of the assembly and the four screws should be inserted into the holes in the available MAX Pattern.
This joint should be left loose until later in the assembly process. Nuts may be added to the bolts by hand to prevent the screws from falling out during subsequent assembly steps, but the nuts will have to be removed eventually.
10) Insert a Stepped Bushing in the 64T plate sprocket from the outboard side.
11) Install a Stacked MAXSpline bracket onto the bottom of the 9in long MAXTube. The bracket should protrude on the rear side of the assembly as shown. Fasten the bracket in place with 3/16in rivets.
12) Place a Stacked MAXSpline bracket onto the opposite side of the MAXTube from the bracket in the previous step. Insert a plastic 1/2in hex MAXHub into the bracket and into the MAXSpline in the MAXTube. Rotate the MAXHub so that the threaded hole is in line with the centerline of the tube and towards the bottom of the assembly.
13) Fasten the Stacked MAXSpline bracket in place with 3/16in rivets. Ensure that the MAXHub stays inserted during the riveting process to ensure alignment.
14) Insert a Structural MAXHub opposite the plastic MAXHub in the outboard Stacked MAX Pattern bracket. Rotate the MAXHub so that the threaded hole is in line with the centerline of the tube and towards the top of the assembly.
15) Fasten the two MAXHubs together using one 1-1/4in long #10-32 socket head cap screw and one 1-1/2in long #10-32 button head cap screw. The socket head screw should be inserted through the plastic MAXHub and threaded into the Structural MAXHub. The button head screw should be inserted through the Structural MAXHub and threaded into the plastic MAXHub.
16) Place two 1in long #10 spacers in between the Stacked MAX Pattern brackets in the locations shown and slide a 1-1/2in long #10-32 button head cap screw through each of them.
17) Place a nylock nut on the top screw and tighten it down.
The bottom screw will need to be left without a nut for a later assembly step, however, it can be temporarily retained with a hand-tight nut which can be removed later.
Right Side Structure
1) Assemble a MAXPlanetary with a 48:1 ratio. Install the 1-1/2in long hex shaft in the output stage, instead of the shaft that ships with the gearbox. Ensure that the shaft is retained in the output stage using the button head screw included with the gearbox.

If you are unsure how to do this, find directions here:
MAXPlanetary Assembly Instructions
2) Slide one 1/4in long and one 1/8in long Hex Shaft Spacer onto the MAXPlanetary output shaft.
3) Form one of the 8in long pieces of #25 chain into a loop. This can be accomplished with a chain tool or by removing an extra link and using a connecting link.
4) Loop the chain around two 16T sprockets.
5) Slide the chain and sprockets inside one of the 13in long MAX Pattern MAXTubes. Roughly line the sprockets up with the 2nd and 3rd MAXSplines from the end of the tube.
6) Insert the MAXPlanetary output shaft through the 3rd MAXSpline on the tube and into the rearmost sprocket. Line up the mounting holes on the front of the gearbox with the MAX Pattern holes. The side of the tube that the MAXPlanetary is installed on is the “inboard” side.
7) Mount the MAXPlanetary with two 1/2in long #10-32 button head cap screws installed through the inner wall of the MAXTube.
Small pliers may be necessary to insert these screws.
8) Insert a Rounded Hex Bearing on the end of the MAXPlanetary output shaft. The bearing should slide onto the shaft and into the MAXSpline in the MAXTube.
9) Install a Shaft End Screw at the end of the MAXPlanetary output shaft.
10) Slide a Rounded Hex Bearing and a 1/8in long Hex Shaft Spacer onto the 20-7/8in long hex shaft.
Take care that the flange of the bearing is oriented as shown.
11) Insert the shaft through the 2nd MAXSpline in the tube and into the sprocket. Slide the shaft through so that some extra length protrudes out of the opposite side of the tube.
12) Slide the bearing into the MAXSpline in the tube.
13) Place a bearing on the end of the protruding hex shaft.
14) Slide the bearing down the shaft and press it into the MAXSpline in the tube. If necessary, use the hex shaft as a lever to tension the chain while sliding the bearing into place.
15) Push the hex shaft until it is flush with the bearing and install a Shaft End Screw at the end of the shaft.
16) Install a Structural MAXHub in the first hole on the MAXTube, on the face opposite from the MAXPlanetary. This side is the “outboard” side. 

Rotate the hub so that the threaded hole is aligned with the centerline of the tube and located on the right side when viewing the hub from the outboard side of the tube.
17) Install a plastic 1/2in Hex MAXHub opposite of the structural MAXHub on the inboard side of the tube. 

Rotate the hub so that the threaded hole is aligned with the centerline of the tube and located on the right side when viewing the hub from the inboard side of the tube.
18) Fasten the two MAXHubs together with a combination of a 1in long #10-32 socket hex cap screw and a 1in long #10-32 button head cap screw. The socket head screw passes through the plastic MAXHub and threads into the Structural MAXHub. The button head screw passes through the Structural MAXHub and threads into the plastic MAXHub.
Take care not to over-tighten the screws and damage the tube or the MAXHubs.
19) Place a MAX Pattern T bracket on either side of the MAXTube. Line the brackets up with the last hole (on the opposite end of the tube from the MAXHubs) with the leg of the brackets facing downward. Fasten the brackets in place with 3/16in rivets.
20) Insert the end of the 9in long 2x1 MAXTube with MAX Pattern between the T brackets.
21) Stack up two MAXSpline Spacers with MAX Pattern and one 64T #25 Plate Sprocket. Align the MAX Patterns in all three parts.
22) Insert four 3in long #10-32 button head cap screws in the four corner holes of the MAX Pattern. Insert the screws through the sprocket first and then through the spacers.
23) Install the spacer and sprocket stack on the joint formed by the MAX Pattern T bracket and 9in long MAXTube. The stack should be installed on the outboard side of the assembly and the four screws inserted into the holes in the available MAX Pattern.
This joint should be left loose until later in the assembly process. Nuts may be added to the bolts by hand to prevent the screws from falling out during subsequent assembly steps, but the nuts will have to be removed eventually.
24) Insert a Stepped Bushing in the 64T plate sprocket from the outboard side.
25) Install a Stacked MAXSpline bracket onto the bottom of the 9in long MAXTube. The bracket should protrude on the rear side of the assembly as shown. Fasten the bracket in place with 3/16in rivets.
26) Place a Stacked MAXSpline bracket onto the opposite side of the MAXTube from the bracket in the previous step. Insert a plastic 1/2in hex MAXHub into the bracket and into the MAXSpline in the MAXTube. 

Rotate the MAXHub so that the threaded hole is in line with the centerline of the tube and towards the bottom of the assembly.
27) Fasten the Stacked MAXSpline bracket in place with 3/16in rivets.
Ensure that the MAXHub stays inserted during the riveting process to ensure alignment.
28) Insert a Structural MAXHub opposite the plastic MAXHub in the outboard Stacked MAX Pattern bracket. Clock the MAXHub so that the threaded hole is in line with the centerline of the tube and towards the top of the assembly.
29) Fasten the two MAXHubs together using one 1-1/4in long #10-32 socket head cap screw and one 1-1/2in long #10-32 button head cap screw. The socket head screw should be inserted through the plastic MAXHub and threaded into the Structural MAXHub. The button head screw should be inserted through the Structural MAXHub and threaded into the plastic MAXHub.
30) Place two 1in long #10 spacers in between the Stacked MAX Pattern brackets in the locations shown and slide a 1-1/2in long #10-32 button head cap screw through each of them.
31) Place a nylock nut on the top screw and tighten it down.
The bottom screw will need to be left without a nut for a later assembly step, however, it can be temporarily retained with a hand-tight nut which can be removed later.
Crossmembers
1) Insert the 22in long piece of MAXSpline Shaft into the right side structure assembly on the MAXSpline with the sprocket and spacer stackup. 

The MAXSpline Shaft should be pressed in until it is bottomed out on the stepped bushing in the sprocket.
Take care to seat the MAXSpline shaft fully without pushing the bushing out of the sprocket.
2) Install a MAXSpline shaft collar on the MAXSpline Shaft so that the holes in the collar line up with the holes in the MAX Pattern T bracket on the structure. Slide the shaft collar into position so that the four screws from the structure pass through the shaft collar.
3) Fasten the shaft collar in place with four nylock nuts. Alternate between tightening the nuts and tightening the two shaft collar screws.
4) Install a second MAXSpline shaft collar on the MAXSpline Shaft.
Leave the collar loose for use later.
5) Install rounded hex bearings in either side of two 3in Omni Wheels.
6) Install one end of the 18-1/2in long Rounded Hex Shaft onto the exposed end of the 1-1/2in long #10-32 Button Head Screw at the bottom of the right side structure assembly. Tighten the screw.
7) Slide the following components onto the 18-1/2in long rounded hex shaft in order:

a. 1x 1/2in Long Shaft Spacer
b. 1x 3in Omni Wheel (with installed bearings)
c. 1x 1/2in Hex Shaft Collar
8) Push the components up against the right side structure assembly and tighten the collar down.
9) Slide the following components onto the 18-1/2in long rounded hex shaft in order (leave these components loose on the shaft):

a. 1x 1/2in Hex Shaft Collar
b. 1x 3in Omni Wheel (with installed bearings)
c. 1x 1/2in Long Shaft Spacer
10) Insert the 20-3/4in long hex shaft into the MAXHub at the bottom of the right side structure assembly.
11) Fasten the end of the hex shaft in place with a 1/2in long #10-32 button head cap screw.
12) Slide seven 2in OD 1/2in hex bore compliant wheels onto the 20-3/4in long hex shaft. Space the wheels so that they match up with the wheels assembled onto the moving gripper jaw earlier.
13) Slide the following components in order onto the jaw powertrain hex shaft:

a. 1x 1/16in long Shaft Spacer
b. 1x 1/8in long Shaft Spacer
c. 1x 20T gear (Note which direction the small notch on the boss of the gear is facing when it is installed. It will be aligned with one of the corners of the hex shaft.)
d. 1x 1/2in Shaft Spacer
e. 1x 1/2in Hex Shaft Collar
14) Push the components against the bearing and tighten the shaft collar.
15) Slide the following components in order onto the jaw powertrain hex shaft (leave these components loose on the shaft):

a. 1x 1/2in Hex Shaft Collar
b. 1x 1/2in Shaft Spacer
c. 1x 20T gear (The alignment notch on this gear must be facing the same direction as the other 20T gear.)
d. 1x 1/8in long Shaft Spacer
e. 1x 1/16in long Shaft Spacer
16) Insert the 20-3/4in long hex shaft into the MAXHub at the top of the right side structure assembly.
17) Fasten the end of the hex shaft in place with a 1/2in long #10-32 button head cap screw.
Integration
1) Slide one 1/16in long Shaft Spacer onto the frontmost shaft of the gripper assembly (the jaw pivot shaft).
2) Slide the moving gripper jaw onto the hex shaft and up against the spacer. Ensure that the gear on the jaw meshes with the gear on the jaw powertrain shaft.
3) Slide one 1/16in long Shaft Spacer onto the jaw pivot hex shaft.
4) Mate the left side structure assembly with the gripper assembly. The structure will connect with the existing assembly at five points:
Jaw pivot shaft - Bottom out on the structural MAXHub on the front of the left side structure assembly.
Jaw powertrain shaft - Pass the shaft through the two bearings on the left side structure assembly.
MAXSpline shaft - Pressed into the proper MAXSpline on the left side structure assembly until it is bottomed out on the stepped bushing in the sprocket.
Lower compliant wheel shaft - Bottom out on the structural MAXHub at the bottom of the left side structure assembly.
Omni wheel shaft - Mate with the loose screw on the bottom of the left side structure assembly. Tighten this screw down.
5) Retain the jaw pivot shaft and the lower compliant wheel shaft with 1/2in long #10-32 button head cap screws.
6) Retain the jaw powertrain shaft with a Shaft End Screw.
7) Slide the loose MAXSpline shaft collar on the MAXSpline Shaft into position so that the four screws from the structure pass through the shaft collar.
8) Fasten the shaft collar in place with four nylock nuts. Alternate between tightening the nuts and tightening the two shaft collar screws.
9) Push the loose components on the omni wheel shaft up against the left side structure assembly and tighten the shaft collar.
10) Slide the loose components on the jaw powertrain shaft up against the bearing in the left side structure assembly. Ensure that the gear meshes with the gear on the moving gripper jaw.
If the gears do not mesh, go back and check that the alignment notches on both gears are facing the same direction.
11) Tighten the shaft collar to hold the components in place on the jaw powertrain shaft.
Arm Subassembly
Gripper Pivot Tube
1) Install two tube nuts in either end of the 23-3/8in long 3/4 Dead Axle Tube.
2) Set this assembly aside.
Arm Assembly
1) Arrange two 31in long MAXTubes with MAX Pattern and one 23-1/2in long 2x1 Light MAXTube on a flat surface as shown. The 23-1/2in long tube forms a crossmember that should be offset from the ends of the 31in long tubes by 8in.
2) Line up four 90 Degree brackets as shown (top and bottom) and rivet them in place.
3) Build two of the following structures from steps 3-5.

Align the MAXSpline and holes of a 64T #25 chain plate sprocket and a MAXSpline Spacer with Holes.
4) Insert a Rounded Hex Bearing into the MAXSplines from the sprocket side.
5) Insert four 1-5/8in #10-32 button head screws through the four holes as shown.
6) Insert the two sprocket and spacer assemblies from steps 3-5 the inside into the first MAX Pattern instance on the 31in long MAXTubes.
7) Add nuts to the screws and gently tighten them down.
Take care not to overtighten the screws and crush the tube.
8) Insert a Rounded Hex Bearing in the outside of each 31in MAXTube aligned with the sprockets.
9) Install Structural MAXHubs on either side of each of the 31in MAXTubes on the end opposite the sprockets.
Gripper Integration
1) Insert the 3/4in Dead Axle Tube assembly through the bushings in the gripper assembly. Line it up so it protrudes an equal amount on either side.
2) Install external retaining rings on either side of the tube. Ensure that the retaining rings fit tightly. If a tighter fit is required, the teeth of the retaining ring can be tweaked with a pair of pliers to grip tighter.
3) Insert the gripper assembly between the tubes of the arm assembly and line the Dead Axle Tube up with the Structural MAXHubs on the arm as shown. Ensure that the gripper is oriented as shown (facing “inwards” towards the arm).
4) Fasten the Dead Axle Tube in place with a 1-5/8in long #10-32 button head screw on either side.
Tower Subassembly
1) Build two of the following:

a. Insert a MAXTube Endcap into each end of the “Tower Riser” tubes (refer to the
Cutting and Tapping section
for the lengths depending on the type of drivetrain being used). 

b. Secure the endcaps in place with eight (8) 3/8in long #10-32 button head screws (four in each endcap).
2) Space the “Tower Risers” evenly underneath the “Tower Bottom Crossbar” so that the inside faces of the risers are the correct distance apart and they are the same distance from the ends of the bottom crossbar.  

See the following list for how far apart the risers should be spaced (inside to inside) depending on the drivetrain type:
ION WCD: 20-1/2in
KOP Drivetrain: 18-1/2in
3) Screw the tower risers in place with six 3/8in long #10-32 button head screws (three per riser) from inside the bottom crossbar.
4) Set up two 23in long 2x1 MAXTubes with MAX Pattern vertically on the ends of the “Tower Bottom Crossbar” so that the tubes are 19-1/2in apart (inside to inside) and spaced evenly from either side of the bottom crossbar.
5) Line up 90 Degree brackets on both sides of the tubes on the corners of the structure and rivet them in place as shown.
6) Position the 19-1/2in long 2x1 Light MAXTube between the upright tubes so that it forms a crossbar with its top surface 6in from the top ends of the upright tubes.
7) Line up 90 Degree brackets on both sides of the tube and rivet them in place as shown.
8) Build two of the following:

a. Align the MAXSpline and holes of a 64T #25 chain plate sprocket and a MAXSpline Spacer with Holes.

b. Insert an Aluminum MAXHub into the MAXSplines from the sprocket side.

c. Insert four 1-5/8in #10-32 button head screws through the four holes as shown.
9) Insert the sprocket and spacer assemblies from the outside into the top MAX Pattern instance on the 23in long MAXTubes.
10) Add nuts to the screws and gently tighten them down.
Take care not to overtighten the screws and crush the tube.
11) Insert an Aluminum MAXHub in the inside of each 23in MAXTube aligned with the sprockets. Rotate the MAXHubs so that their tapped holes are turned 180 degrees from the tapped holes on the hubs on the other side of the tube.
12) Retain the MAXHubs with 1-1/4in long #10-32 socket head screws inserted from either side.
13) Assemble a MAXPlanetary with a 48:1 ratio. Install the 3in long hex shaft (that ships with the gearbox) in the output stage. Ensure that the shaft is retained in the output stage using the button head screw included with the gearbox.

If you are unsure how to do this, find directions here:
MAXPlanetary Assembly Instructions
14) Insert the MAXPlanetary in the bottom MAXSpline on the upright tube that will become the left side of the robot.
15) Install a Rounded Hex Bearing to support and align the shaft.
16) Fasten the MAXPlanetary in place with two 1-1/4in long #10-32 button head screws.
Take care when tightening the screws to avoid crushing the tube.
17) Slide a 1/16in wide Shaft Spacer onto the gearbox shaft.
18) Insert two Rounded Hex Bearings on the insides of the upright tubes (one bearing in each tube) and one Rounded Hex Bearing in the outside of the right side tube.
19) Insert the 23-1/4in long hex shaft through the bearing on the left side upright tube.
Do not slide the shaft all the way through to the right side bearing.
20) Slide two shaft collars onto the hex shaft (between the two upright tubes).
Leave the shaft collars loose on the shaft.
21) Slide (in order) one Rounded Hex Bearing and one 1/16in Shaft Spacer onto the 23-1/4in hex shaft on the left side end of the shaft.
Do not insert the bearing into the MAXSpline in the tube yet.
22) Form one of the 8in long pieces of #25 chain into a loop. This can be accomplished with a chain tool or by removing an extra link and using a connecting link.
23) Loop the chain around one 16T #25 single chain sprocket and one 16T #25 double chain sprocket.
24) Slide the chain and sprockets onto the ends of the two hex shafts on the left side. The single sprocket goes on the gearbox shaft and the double sprocket goes on the 23-1/4in long shaft. 

The unused side of the double sprocket should be placed on the outside. 

Make note of what orientation the alignment notch is on the double sprocket (it will be aligned with one of the corners of the hex shaft).
25) Slide both sprockets along with the bearing and spacers towards the tube. Insert the bearing into the MAXSpline and ensure all the components are fully seated against the faces of the bearing. 

It may be necessary to apply tension to the chain by pushing on the opposite end of the 23-1/4in hex shaft.
26) Install a shaft collar on the gearbox shaft.
27) Slide the 23-1/4in hex shaft through the bearings in the right side upright tube.
Take care not to allow the bearing on the inside of the left upright to pop out while sliding the shaft.
Slide the shaft until its end is flush with the face of the double sprocket.
28) Install one 1/16in wide, one 1/8in wide, and one 1/4in wide Shaft Spacer onto the right side end of the 23-1/4 hex shaft.
29) Install a 16T #25 chain sprocket on the end of the shaft up against the spacers. 

Ensure that the alignment notch on this sprocket is oriented the same direction as the alignment notch on the double sprocket on the other end of the shaft.
30) Retain the 23-1/4in hex shaft with a Shaft End Screw on either end.
31) Push the shaft collars up against the inside bearings on each upright and tighten them down.
32) Press one right hand Tube Nut into one end of the “Tower Brace” Dead Axle Tube.
Push the tube nut in so the barbs are slightly below flush, but do not push it in further than necessary.
33) Press one left hand Tube Nut into the opposite end of the tower brace.
Push the tube nut in so the barbs are slightly below flush but do not push it in further than necessary.
Make a mark on the tube (e.g. with a permanent marker or a piece of tape) which end is the left hand end.
34) Install (in order) one right hand Jam Nut and one Oversize #10 Washer onto a right hand Ball Joint Rod End.
35) Thread the rod end into the right hand tube nut on the tower brace tube. Leave the rod end and nut loose.
36) Install (in order) one left hand Jam Nut and one Oversize #10 Washer onto a left hand Ball Joint Rod End.
37) Thread the rod end into the left hand tube nut on the tower brace tube. Leave the rod end and nut loose.

Repeat steps 32-37 until you have two of these structures, then set them aside.
38) Insert two 1-5/8in long #10-32 button head screws (one in each side) into holes in the upright tubes shown below.
39) Slide two 1/8in long #10 spacers onto the ends of the screws in the uprights (one in each side).
40) Install the right hand ends of the tower brace assemblies onto the ends of the screws in the uprights.
41) Install nylock nuts onto the screws to fasten the tower braces in place.
Take care not to overtighten the screws and crush the tubes.
Integration with Drivetrains
Instructions on how to build the ION West Coast Drive are found here:
2023 REV ION FRC West Coast Drivetrain Build Guide
You can also check out the CAD on OnShape here:
West Coast Drivetrain
ION West Coast Drive
1) Place a 2x1 MAXTube Endcap on either drive rail of the drivetrain towards the rear. The center of the rearmost hole on the endcap should be 5-1/2in from the rear surface of the drivetrain frame.
2) Fasten the endcap in place with four 2-1/2in long #10-32 button head screws (two per endcap) from the bottom of the drive rail.
3) Set the tower assembly onto the drivetrain so that the front of the tower tubes are 3-1/2in from the front surface of the drivetrain frame.
4) Fasten the tower risers in place with four 2-1/2in long #10-32 button head screws (two per riser) from the bottom of the drive rail.
5) Use two 1/2in long #10-32 button head screws (one per side) to fasten the ends of the tower braces to the rearmost hole on the inside surface of the endcaps attached to the frame.

It may be necessary to adjust the length of the tower braces (by rotating the 3/4in tube while holding the free rod end still) in order to get the rod ends to line up with the holes in the endcaps.
6) Tighten the tower braces by rotating the 3/4in tubes so that braces are pulling on the tower (not pushing).
Only a small amount of force is required in order to provide adequate support to the tower.
7) Lock the tower braces in place by tightening the jam nuts on either side of the braces while holding the 3/4in tubes still.
Kit of Parts Drivetrain
1) Set the tower assembly onto the drivetrain so that the front of the tower tubes are approximately 3-3/16in from the front surface of the drivetrain frame (this is an approximate number- the most important thing is that the holes line up between the drivetrain and tower riser endcaps).
2) Fasten the tower risers in place with four 1/2in long #10-32 button head screws (two per riser) from the underside of the top flange of the inner drive rails.
It may be necessary to remove the front wheel to perform this installation.
3) Use two 3/4in long #10-32 button head screws (one per side) and nylock nuts to fasten the ends of the tower braces to the top 0.201in hole on the inside face of the inner drive rails (see image). 

It may be necessary to adjust the length of the tower braces (by rotating the 3/4in tube while holding the free rod end still) in order to get the rod ends to line up with the holes in the drivetrain.
4) Tighten the tower braces by rotating the 3/4in tubes so that braces are pulling on the tower (not pushing).
Only a small amount of force is required in order to provide adequate support to the tower.
5) Lock the tower braces in place by tightening the jam nuts on either side of the braces while holding the 3/4in tubes still.
Universal
1) Slide the 25-5/8in long hex shaft through one side of the bearings in the arm assembly. Only about 1/16in should be protruding on the inside of the inner bearing.
2) Slide a spare piece of hex shaft through the bearings on the other side of the arm assembly with a similar 1/16in protruding on the inside of the inner bearing.
3) Slide 1/16in wide Shaft Spacers onto the exposed shafts.
4) Line the shafts up with the MAXHubs at the top of the tower.
5) Push the 25-5/8in shaft through the MAXHubs across the tower structure and through the MAXHubs on the other side. Allow the shaft to push the spare hex shaft out of the way so that the spacer ends up on the 25-5/8in shaft. Finally, pass the shaft through the bearings on the other side so that the shaft is flush with the outer bearing.
6) Retain the shaft with two Shaft End Screws.
7) Extend four Chain Turnbuckles to their fully extended size.
8) Loop the two 184-link chains around the outer 64T sprockets at the top of the robot and the exposed 16T double sprockets at the bottom. Position the chain so the two ends meet as close to the bottom sprocket as possible on the rear side of the tower.
9) Fasten two of the Chain Turnbuckles to one end of each chain (one turnbuckle per chain) with connecting links.
10) Make note of where the chain lines up on the turnbuckle and remove any extra links as necessary to bring the chain into the range where the turnbuckle can tension it.
Note that the turnbuckle can only be adjusted inwards at this point, so the chain will likely be too long even after removing links. Also note that the connecting links require a narrow link at the end of the chain.
11) Fasten the remaining ends of the Chain Turnbuckles to the remaining ends of the chains with connecting links.
12) Adjust the turnbuckles to tension the chain.
The mechanism will benefit from a very tight chain, but take care to avoid over-tightening and damaging other motion components (bearings, shafts, gearboxes, etc.).
If the chain turnbuckles reach their fully retracted positions and the chain isn’t tight, repeat the last few steps to remove links from the chain and reattempt tensioning.
13) Position the gripper so that the top tube is inclined by about 30-40 degrees from level.
14) Loop the two 288-link chains around the inner 64T sprockets at the top of the robot and the 64T sprockets on the gripper. Position the chain so the two ends meet as close to the gripper sprocket as possible on the top side of the arm.
15) Fasten two of the Chain Turnbuckles to one end of each chain (one turnbuckle per chain) with connecting links.
16) Make note of where the chain lines up on the turnbuckle and remove any extra links as necessary to bring the chain into the range where the turnbuckle can tension it.
Note that the turnbuckle can only be adjusted inwards at this point, so the chain will likely be too long even after removing links. Also note that the connecting links require a narrow link at the end of the chain.
17) Fasten the remaining ends of the Chain Turnbuckles to the remaining ends of the chains with connecting links.
18) Adjust the turnbuckles to tension the chain.
The mechanism will benefit from a very tight chain but take care to avoid over-tightening and damaging other motion components (bearings, shafts, gearboxes, etc.).
If the chain turnbuckles reach their fully retracted positions and the chain isn’t tight, repeat the last few steps to remove links from the chain and reattempt tensioning.
Previous
2023 REV ION FRC Starter Bot
Next
2023 REV ION FRC West Coast Drivetrain Build Guide
Last updated
6 months ago
Was this helpful?