REV DUO Kickoff Concepts
2025-26 REV DUO FTC Starter Bot
DECODE 2025-26
Starter Bot - DECODE
Bill of Materials
Programming TeleOp
Build Tips & Tricks
Starter Bot Changelog 2025-26
INTO THE DEEP 2024-25
2024-25 REV DUO FTC Starter Bot
Starter Bot - INTO THE DEEP
Bill of Materials
Programming TeleOp
Programming - Initialization
Programming - Creating Functions
Programming - Controlling the Arm and Wrist
Programming - Intake and Claw Toggle
Programming - Driving and Telemetry
Programming - OnBot Java Overview
Build Tips & Tricks
Upgrades!
Starter Bot Changelog 2024-25
CENTERSTAGE 2023-2024
Starter Bot - CENTERSTAGE
Bill of Materials
Programming Teleop
Building Tips & Tricks
Upgrades
Starter Bot Changelog
POWERPLAY 2022-2023
Starter Bot - POWERPLAY
Alternative Control Hub Placement
Starter Bot - Programming TeleOp
Game Breakdown
Game Elements
Drivetrain
Intake
Lifts
Freight Frenzy - 2021-2022
Starter Bot - Freight Frenzy
Starter Bot - Programming TeleOp
Game Breakdown
Game Elements
Drivetrain
Intake
Carousel Mechanism
Freight Delivery Mechanisms
Programming Autonomous
Ultimate Goal - 2020-2021
Game Strategy
Game Piece
Drivetrain
Intake
Conveyor
Flywheel Launcher
Powered by GitBook
On this page
General Drivetrain Options
Robot Size Restrictions
Drivetrain Options
Field Obstacles and Challenges
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
General Drivetrain Options
Before diving into the specific obstacles in the Freight Frenzy game that may impact drivetrain design, lets first consider some of the game agnostic information on drivetrains.
Robot Size Restrictions
Robot rules, outside of the weight limit, have mainly stayed the same. The main constraint is the 18" x 18" x 18" sizing requirement.
Drivetrain Options
While there are many types of drivetrains teams can build, getting a drive train up and running as quickly as possible should be an overall goal. With this in mind there were two main drivetrains we considered utilizing for Freight Frenzy; Differential Drive or Mecanum Drive.
Differential Drivetrain
Using a differential or tank drivetrain, like the
Channel Drivetrain
, is a solid option for teams.
Pros
Cons
More traction with the floor
Can not strafe to align with game piece or goal
Stock out of FTC Starter Kit V3
Mecanum Drivetrain
Using a
mecanum drivetrain
gives teams some extra maneuverability on the field by allowing the chassis to move omni directional.
Pros
Cons
Move side to side for alignment
May have trouble getting over the barrier
Lower to the ground with 75mm Wheels
Requires two extra motors and mecanum wheels
Either choice for a team will lead them to success this season. For our prototyping we went with the channel drivetrain to make modifications.
Field Obstacles and Challenges
Many FTC teams recycle drivetrains from season to season, whether for cost or ease of design reason. The requirements surrounding the warehouse, such as the barriers and the warehouse procedures, shakes up the standard design expectations for drivetrains in FTC.
There are two options for getting around the barriers: Going around or going over.
Going Around
Each barrier is roughly 13.7 inches from the playing field wall. To go around the barrier a drivetrain must be less than 13.7 inches wide. Creating a drivetrain that meets the size parameter creates constraints in the overall size of the robot. While this is a perfectly valid solution to the problem, we wanted to find a solution that could be made from a Starter Kit, and did not require structural components to be cut down.
Going Over
The poles of the barriers are roughly 1.26" from the floor with a roughly 3.5" gap between each pole. If we compare these dimensions against the standard FTC kit drivetrains, the drivetrains do not have the clearance to get over the barrier. Using our C Channel we were able to create a solution to this clearance issues.
Rather than seat the wheel shafts within the bearing holes on the Channel pattern, we used the extrusions slots and bearing pillow blocks to host the wheel shaft. By doing this we get approximately 2 inches of clearance, which gives us the clearance necessary to get over the barrier.
Previous
Game Elements
Next
Intake
Last updated
2 months ago
Was this helpful?