REV DUO Kickoff Concepts
2025-26 REV DUO FTC Starter Bot
DECODE 2025-26
Starter Bot - DECODE
Bill of Materials
Programming TeleOp
Build Tips & Tricks
Starter Bot Changelog 2025-26
INTO THE DEEP 2024-25
2024-25 REV DUO FTC Starter Bot
Starter Bot - INTO THE DEEP
Bill of Materials
Programming TeleOp
Programming - Initialization
Programming - Creating Functions
Programming - Controlling the Arm and Wrist
Programming - Intake and Claw Toggle
Programming - Driving and Telemetry
Programming - OnBot Java Overview
Build Tips & Tricks
Upgrades!
Starter Bot Changelog 2024-25
CENTERSTAGE 2023-2024
Starter Bot - CENTERSTAGE
Bill of Materials
Programming Teleop
Building Tips & Tricks
Upgrades
Starter Bot Changelog
POWERPLAY 2022-2023
Starter Bot - POWERPLAY
Alternative Control Hub Placement
Starter Bot - Programming TeleOp
Game Breakdown
Game Elements
Drivetrain
Intake
Lifts
Freight Frenzy - 2021-2022
Starter Bot - Freight Frenzy
Starter Bot - Programming TeleOp
Game Breakdown
Game Elements
Drivetrain
Intake
Carousel Mechanism
Freight Delivery Mechanisms
Programming Autonomous
Ultimate Goal - 2020-2021
Game Strategy
Game Piece
Drivetrain
Intake
Conveyor
Flywheel Launcher
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Field Layout and Obstacles
Robot Size Restrictions
Drivetrain Options
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
Drivetrains are one of the first mechanisms that teams typically build and start development on. There are few changes to the robot rules that are needed to consider when designing a drivetrain
Field Layout and Obstacles
Ultimate Goal provides a flat field with little in the way for a robot to maneuver through out the field of play. Rings are re-introduced into the field through a drop on the side of the goals by a human player. Rings will likely be rolling along the field and sitting flat when hitting a robot or another object like a field wall. While the rings themselves are compliant it doesn't seem like they are easily trapped inside of a drivetrain.
Robot Size Restrictions
Robot rules, outside of the weight limit, have mainly stayed the same. The main constraint is the 18" x 18" x 18" sizing requirement.
Drivetrain Options
While there are many types of drivetrains teams can build, getting a drive train up and running as quickly as possible should be an overall goal. With this in mind there were two main drivetrains we considered utilizing for Ultimate Goal; Differential Drive or Mecanum Drive.
Differential Drivetrain
Using a differential or tank drivetrain, like the
Channel Drivetrain
, is a solid option for teams.
Pros
Cons
Can hold ground when getting rings
Can not strafe to align with game piece or goal
More traction with floor
Stock out of FTC Starter Kit V3
Mecanum Drivetrain
Using a
mecanum drivetrain
gives teams some extra maneuverability on the field by allowing the chassis to move omni directional.
Pros
Cons
Move side to side for alignment
May have trouble getting rings against other
Lower to the ground with 75mm Wheels
Requires two extra motors and mecanum wheels
Either choice for a team will lead them to success this season. For our prototyping of intakes we went with a Mecanum Drivetrain mainly so it would sit lower to the ground.
Previous
Game Piece
Next
Intake
Last updated
2 months ago
Was this helpful?