REV ION Build System
REV ION Build System Overview
FRC Robot Basics Guide
System Standards
Structure
Introduction to Structure
Brackets
MAXSpline Brackets
Structure Brackets
Actuator Brackets
MAX Pattern Plates
Hardware
Extrusion
Bumper Brackets
MAXComposite
Motion
Introduction to Motion
Shafts / Spacers / Collars
MAXHubs
Tubes / Bushings / Axles
Bearings / Bearing Blocks
Pivot Joints
Linear Actuators
Gears
Advanced Gears
Addendum Shifting in Gears
Sprockets and Chain
Advanced Sprockets and Chain
Chain Tool
Belts and Pulleys
Ratio Plates
NEO Brushless Motors
Servos
Smart Robot Servo
Wheels
Traction
Grip
Omni
Compliant
Flap
Gearboxes
2 Motor Gearbox - Through Bore
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox - Through Bore
MAXPlanetary System
System Features
Mounting Features
Load Ratings
Assembly Tips and Tricks
MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Build Guide
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Onshape
MAXSwerve Calibration
Wiring MAXSwerve
Programming MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Module Inspection
MAXSwerve Spiky Wheel
Aluminum MAXSwerve Wheels
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Evaluation
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Tread Reinforcement
MAXSwerve Tips and Tricks
Onshape Examples
Onshape CAD Examples
Low Complexity
Medium Complexity
High Complexity
Building Techniques
Supporting Motion
Constraining Motion
Build Guides
MAXSwerve Module Assembly
Motor Orientation
MAXSwerve SPARK MAX Mounting Bracket Assembly
MAXSwerve Pack Contents
MAXSwerve Assembly Tips
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Assembly
Elevator Bearing Block Assembly
MAXPlanetary Gearbox Assembly
NEO & CIM
NEO Vortex
NEO 550 & 550 Sized Motors
775 Sized Motors
Falcon
Shaft Retention Assembly
Spacer Installation
MAX 90 Degree Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Gearbox Assembly
Linear Actuator Assembly
MAX 180 Degree Gearbox Assembly
Drivetrain Bumper Kit Assembly
West Coast Drivetrain with MAXTube
AM14U5 (FRC Kit of Parts Chassis)
REV ION West Coast Drivetrain Assembly
REV ION Control System
REV Hardware Client
Power Distribution Hub
Radio Power Module
Mini Power Module
Brushless Motors and Controllers
Pneumatics
Sensors & Indicators
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Assembly Instructions
Troubleshooting
Space Between Input Plate and Gear Cartridge
Greasing Guide
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
NEO Vortex Multi-Stage Assembly Instructions
For assembly you will need a 5/32" Allen Wrench.
Assembly Instructions
When building your gearbox make sure the highest gear reduction is closest to the motor.
1) Place the Vortex Shaft - MAXPlanetary Input Coupler, securing it with the #10-32 Shaft End Screw.
2) Place the Vortex Input Stage on the SPARK Flex, securing it with the four #10-32 Socket Head Screws x5/16in. 

Note: If using a NEO Vortex Solo Adapter, the placement is the same.
3) Place the appropriate gear cartridge on the Vortex Shaft - MAXPlanetary Input Coupler.
Note: The cartridge may need to be rotated to get the splines to line up.  Once the splines are inserted continue to rotate the cartridge to ensure that the alignment features are completely engaged.
4) Continue stacking gear cartridges away from the motor in the appropriate order.
Note: Ensure that the alignment features of each cartridge are properly engaged with the cartridges next to it.
5) Place the 1/2" Hex Socket Output onto the previous gear cartridge.
Note: The cartridge may need to be rotated to get the splines to line up.  Once the splines are inserted continue to rotate the cartridge to ensure that the alignment features are completely engaged.
6) Insert the appropriate length of 10-32 Socket Head Cap Screws into the gearbox assembly holes. Tighten the gearbox assembly screws down.
0 Cartridges: 1/2in Long Screws
1 Cartridge: 1in Long Screws
2 Cartridges: 1-1/2in Long Screws
3 Cartridges: 2in Long Screws

Note: It is a best practice to spin both screws all the way into the holes without tightening them and then alternate between tightening the two screws to snug them up.
Troubleshooting
Space Between Input Plate and Gear Cartridge
Some Vortex MAXPlanetary Input Kits (
REV-21-2130
) purchased after November 2024 have a MAXPlanetary Input Coupler that is slightly too shallow.  This may cause a space between the MAXPlanetary Vortex Input Stage and the first MAXPlanetary Cartridge leading to instability in the full gearbox stack.
Gap caused by shallow input coupler highlighted in orange.
Spacer Installed to resolve gap.
This minor variation in depth still allows for the proper amount of engagement between the Vortex MAXPlanetary Input Coupler and the MAXPlanetary Gearbox stages.
Spacer Installation
1) Get a MAXPlanetary Spacer (REV-21-3249) using one of the following methods:
Use the spacer included in Vortex Shaft - MAXPlanetary Input Kits purchased after March 10th, 2025
3D Print a spacer using a rigid print material and the .STL file linked
Email
[email protected]
to have a MAXPlanetary Spacer sent to you
Direct Download Link for .STL file
Note: Do not use flexible materials similar to TPU when 3D printing the spacer
2) Align the spacer with the SPARK Flex's mounting holes 

Note: the placement is the same when using a NEO Vortex Solo Adapter
3) Secure the Vortex Input Stage on top of the spacer, securing it with four #10-32 Socket Head Screws x 5/16in.
Continue the assembly instructions as written to complete the MAXPlanetary Gearbox.
Greasing Guide
MAXPlanetary Gearbox Cartridges are pre-lubricated and sealed. If during maintenance you find that a cartridge needs more grease, we recommend using a Molybdenum Grease to apply more lubrication such as
Synthetic NLGI #2 Molybdenum Grease
or
MOLYKOTE® G-2008 Synthetic Tool Gear Grease
.
Previous
NEO & CIM
Next
NEO 550 & 550 Sized Motors
Last updated
5 months ago
Was this helpful?