REV ION Build System
REV ION Build System Overview
FRC Robot Basics Guide
System Standards
Structure
Introduction to Structure
Brackets
MAXSpline Brackets
Structure Brackets
Actuator Brackets
MAX Pattern Plates
Hardware
Extrusion
Bumper Brackets
MAXComposite
Motion
Introduction to Motion
Shafts / Spacers / Collars
MAXHubs
Tubes / Bushings / Axles
Bearings / Bearing Blocks
Pivot Joints
Linear Actuators
Gears
Advanced Gears
Addendum Shifting in Gears
Sprockets and Chain
Advanced Sprockets and Chain
Chain Tool
Belts and Pulleys
Ratio Plates
NEO Brushless Motors
Servos
Smart Robot Servo
Wheels
Traction
Grip
Omni
Compliant
Flap
Gearboxes
2 Motor Gearbox - Through Bore
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox - Through Bore
MAXPlanetary System
System Features
Mounting Features
Load Ratings
Assembly Tips and Tricks
MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Build Guide
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Onshape
MAXSwerve Calibration
Wiring MAXSwerve
Programming MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Module Inspection
MAXSwerve Spiky Wheel
Aluminum MAXSwerve Wheels
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Evaluation
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Tread Reinforcement
MAXSwerve Tips and Tricks
Onshape Examples
Onshape CAD Examples
Low Complexity
Medium Complexity
High Complexity
Building Techniques
Supporting Motion
Constraining Motion
Build Guides
MAXSwerve Module Assembly
Motor Orientation
MAXSwerve SPARK MAX Mounting Bracket Assembly
MAXSwerve Pack Contents
MAXSwerve Assembly Tips
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Assembly
Elevator Bearing Block Assembly
MAXPlanetary Gearbox Assembly
NEO & CIM
NEO Vortex
NEO 550 & 550 Sized Motors
775 Sized Motors
Falcon
Shaft Retention Assembly
Spacer Installation
MAX 90 Degree Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Gearbox Assembly
Linear Actuator Assembly
MAX 180 Degree Gearbox Assembly
Drivetrain Bumper Kit Assembly
West Coast Drivetrain with MAXTube
AM14U5 (FRC Kit of Parts Chassis)
REV ION West Coast Drivetrain Assembly
REV ION Control System
REV Hardware Client
Power Distribution Hub
Radio Power Module
Mini Power Module
Brushless Motors and Controllers
Pneumatics
Sensors & Indicators
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Recommended Order of Assembly
MAX 90 Degree Gearbox Assembly Wedge
Using the Assembly Wedge
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
The MAXPlanetary is a modular planetary gearbox designed for use with NEO-class motors and is optimized for torque density. By following these tips and tricks, you can ensure that your gearbox is assembled properly and functions efficiently. With the help of this guide, you will be able to assemble your MAXPlanetary gearbox with confidence and ease.
Recommended Order of Assembly
Attempting to stack the Input Coupler onto the gear cartridges, rather than pressing the Input Coupler into the stack is often more difficult.
1) Place the motor with the motor shaft and Universal Input Stage facing upwards.
2) Slide the Input Coupler on the motor shaft. Ensure that the key is engaged and the Input Coupler has been slid all the way against the motor.
3) Take your stacked output stages and gear cartridges and align them with the Universal Input Stage.
4) Slide the stack of gear cartridges onto the motor shaft and input stage. Ensure that the input spline on the rear gear cartridge and the input coupler is properly engaged.
Note: This may require twisting the gear cartridges by hand slightly to line up the splines, and then rotating back once the spline is engaged.  
Make sure the entire stack is pressed together and all alignment features are properly engaged.
5) Make sure the stack is fully seated and no gap is present between the stack and the input plate before inserting and tightening the gearbox assembly screws.
Keep in mind that it may require a decent amount of force to couple the gearbox stack with the motor- it is not expected to be a slip-fit.
MAX 90 Degree Gearbox Assembly Wedge
To help teams properly align their Bevel Gear while assembling the MAX 90 Degree Gearbox we developed an Assembly Wedge tool. This tool can be 3D printed and reused to assemble multiple MAX 90 Degree Gearboxes.
Download the MAX 90 Degree Gearbox Assembly Wedge here!
Using the Assembly Wedge
Begin this process after Step 8 of the
Full Assembly Instructions.
1) With all screws in the MAX 90 Degree Gearbox installed slightly loose, insert an Assembly Wedge on either side of the gearbox ensuring the flat side of the wedge is in contact with the bottom plate.
2) While applying pressure to both Assembly Wedges, tighten the screws in the MAX 90 Degree Gearbox on alternating sides. Use the image below as a guide for tightening the screws.
3) Once all of the screws are secure, remove the Assembly Wedges and spin the gearbox to ensure it moves smoothly.
Previous
Load Ratings
Next
MAXSwerve
Last updated
6 months ago
Was this helpful?