REV ION Build System
REV ION Build System Overview
FRC Robot Basics Guide
System Standards
Structure
Introduction to Structure
Brackets
MAXSpline Brackets
Structure Brackets
Actuator Brackets
MAX Pattern Plates
Hardware
Extrusion
Bumper Brackets
MAXComposite
Motion
Introduction to Motion
Shafts / Spacers / Collars
MAXHubs
Tubes / Bushings / Axles
Bearings / Bearing Blocks
Pivot Joints
Linear Actuators
Gears
Advanced Gears
Addendum Shifting in Gears
Sprockets and Chain
Advanced Sprockets and Chain
Chain Tool
Belts and Pulleys
Ratio Plates
NEO Brushless Motors
Servos
Smart Robot Servo
Wheels
Traction
Grip
Omni
Compliant
Flap
Gearboxes
2 Motor Gearbox - Through Bore
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox - Through Bore
MAXPlanetary System
System Features
Mounting Features
Load Ratings
Assembly Tips and Tricks
MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Build Guide
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Onshape
MAXSwerve Calibration
Wiring MAXSwerve
Programming MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Module Inspection
MAXSwerve Spiky Wheel
Aluminum MAXSwerve Wheels
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Evaluation
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Tread Reinforcement
MAXSwerve Tips and Tricks
Onshape Examples
Onshape CAD Examples
Low Complexity
Medium Complexity
High Complexity
Building Techniques
Supporting Motion
Constraining Motion
Build Guides
MAXSwerve Module Assembly
Motor Orientation
MAXSwerve SPARK MAX Mounting Bracket Assembly
MAXSwerve Pack Contents
MAXSwerve Assembly Tips
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Assembly
Elevator Bearing Block Assembly
MAXPlanetary Gearbox Assembly
NEO & CIM
NEO Vortex
NEO 550 & 550 Sized Motors
775 Sized Motors
Falcon
Shaft Retention Assembly
Spacer Installation
MAX 90 Degree Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Gearbox Assembly
Linear Actuator Assembly
MAX 180 Degree Gearbox Assembly
Drivetrain Bumper Kit Assembly
West Coast Drivetrain with MAXTube
AM14U5 (FRC Kit of Parts Chassis)
REV ION West Coast Drivetrain Assembly
REV ION Control System
REV Hardware Client
Power Distribution Hub
Radio Power Module
Mini Power Module
Brushless Motors and Controllers
Pneumatics
Sensors & Indicators
Powered by GitBook
On this page
#25 Chain Tool Basics
Kit Contents
Manipulating Chain
Using the Chain Tool
Using Master Links
Resetting Chain Pins
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
Creating a loop of chain requires breaking off the correct number of links by removing a specific chain pin and joining the ends together. Chain can be broken using many methods, including a Chain Tool or various steel cutting blades, like a dremel. Once you have counted the number of links necessary for your application, the chain can be joined using a master link or by replacing the chain pin.
#25 Chain Tool Basics
This custom-designed #25 Chain Tool (
REV-41-1442
) also commonly referred to as a "chain break" or "chain breaker", allows teams to easily break and re-assemble #25 Chain (
REV-41-1365
). The mandrel is used to push out the chain pin. If using Master Links (
REV-41-1366
), the pin can be completely removed, but the depth guide screw allows the option of partially pressing out the pin and then re-assembling without master links.
Kit Contents
The REV Robotics #25 Chain Tool (
REV-41-1442
) comes with the following:
1 Chain Tool Block
2 Set Screw Mandrels
1 Depth Guide Screw
1 Cup Point Set Screw
1 4mm Allen Wrench
Before using the #25 Chain Tool for the first time, remove the thread pin screw and use WD-40 or compressed air to remove any shavings left in the tool from the manufacturing process. This will ensure the chain break works smoothly and efficiently breaks your chain. Reinstall the thread pin screw. Once this is complete, the chain break is ready for use.
Manipulating Chain
In almost all applications, chain links are connected to form a loop. While chain can sometimes be purchased in specific length loops, it is more common and economical to buy chain by the foot and make custom loop lengths to fit the application. It’s recommended to use a specialized tool, a chain breaker, to cut chain into desired lengths to prevent accidental damage.
Chain breakers do not actually cut the chain; instead, they are used to press out the pins from an outer link. After the pins have been removed, the chain can be separated, leaving inner links on both ends of the break.
Chain Tools have two methods for resetting chain. Using Master Links and resetting the chain pin. Resetting the pin is results in a stronger chain than using a master link.
Using the Chain Tool
Roller chain is typically connected into a continuous loop. This can be done using a special tool to press the pins in and out of the desired outer link as described in the
Resetting Chain Pins
section, or, if the chain is already the correct length, a common roller chain accessory called a master link, or quick-release link, can be used to connect two ends of the chain.
Using Master Links
1) Unscrew the Pin Screw and Compression Screw such that the chain channel is free of obstructions.
2) Insert #25 chain (REV-41-1365) into the chain channel and align the desired link between the two pins above the Cup Point Set Screw.
3) Secure the chain in place with the Compression Screw using the Allen Wrench. Tighten until the chain cannot shift within the channel.
4) Put the Allen Wrench into the Pin Screw and tighten until the pin is entirely removed from the chain. Make sure to have a Master Link (REV-41-1366) on hand.
Resetting Chain Pins
1) Unscrew the Pin Screw and Compression Screw such that the chain channel is free of obstructions.
2) Insert #25 chain (REV-41-1365) into the chain channel and align the desired link between the two pins above the Cup Point Set Screw.
3) Secure the chain in place with the Compression Screw using the Allen Wrench. Tighten until the chain cannot shift within the channel.
4) Put the Allen Wrench into the Pin Screw and tighten until the pin almost touches the Cup Point Set Screw. You should stop pushing the pin out before it leaves the back plate of the outer links. 

Considerable pressure will be felt before the pin comes out, but removing the chain from the tool occasionally during the process to check if the pin is unseated from the bushing is recommended.

The final result should be the pin still partially connected to the chain, as seen in the second photo.
5) Unscrew the Compression Screw until the channel is empty, and place the unseated pin and outer plates into the open channel. Place the desired empty inside link in between the outer plates and unseated pin.
6) Tighten the Compression Screw using the Allen Wrench until the pin is reseated.
7) Once the pin is fully reseated, release the chain from the tool using the Allen Wrench- your chain should be connected!
Previous
Advanced Sprockets and Chain
Next
Belts and Pulleys
Last updated
1 year ago
Was this helpful?