REV ION Build System
REV ION Build System Overview
FRC Robot Basics Guide
System Standards
Structure
Introduction to Structure
Brackets
MAXSpline Brackets
Structure Brackets
Actuator Brackets
MAX Pattern Plates
Hardware
Extrusion
Bumper Brackets
MAXComposite
Motion
Introduction to Motion
Shafts / Spacers / Collars
MAXHubs
Tubes / Bushings / Axles
Bearings / Bearing Blocks
Pivot Joints
Linear Actuators
Gears
Advanced Gears
Addendum Shifting in Gears
Sprockets and Chain
Advanced Sprockets and Chain
Chain Tool
Belts and Pulleys
Ratio Plates
NEO Brushless Motors
Servos
Smart Robot Servo
Wheels
Traction
Grip
Omni
Compliant
Flap
Gearboxes
2 Motor Gearbox - Through Bore
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox - Through Bore
MAXPlanetary System
System Features
Mounting Features
Load Ratings
Assembly Tips and Tricks
MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Build Guide
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Onshape
MAXSwerve Calibration
Wiring MAXSwerve
Programming MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Module Inspection
MAXSwerve Spiky Wheel
Aluminum MAXSwerve Wheels
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Evaluation
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Tread Reinforcement
MAXSwerve Tips and Tricks
Onshape Examples
Onshape CAD Examples
Low Complexity
Medium Complexity
High Complexity
Building Techniques
Supporting Motion
Constraining Motion
Build Guides
MAXSwerve Module Assembly
Motor Orientation
MAXSwerve SPARK MAX Mounting Bracket Assembly
MAXSwerve Pack Contents
MAXSwerve Assembly Tips
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Assembly
Elevator Bearing Block Assembly
MAXPlanetary Gearbox Assembly
NEO & CIM
NEO Vortex
NEO 550 & 550 Sized Motors
775 Sized Motors
Falcon
Shaft Retention Assembly
Spacer Installation
MAX 90 Degree Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Gearbox Assembly
Linear Actuator Assembly
MAX 180 Degree Gearbox Assembly
Drivetrain Bumper Kit Assembly
West Coast Drivetrain with MAXTube
AM14U5 (FRC Kit of Parts Chassis)
REV ION West Coast Drivetrain Assembly
REV ION Control System
REV Hardware Client
Power Distribution Hub
Radio Power Module
Mini Power Module
Brushless Motors and Controllers
Pneumatics
Sensors & Indicators
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Sprocket Basics
ION Sprockets
Anatomy of a Sprocket
Anatomy of Chain
Using Sprockets and Chain as a Powertrain
Chain Tension
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
Sprockets and Chain are ideal for transmitting motion over long distances. A chain consists of a continuous set of links that ride on the sprockets to transmit motion. The two most commonly used sizes of chain in FIRST Robotics Competition are #25 and #35. When choosing between chain sizes, it is important to consider the pitch of the chain and the weight and forces that your mechanism will be experiencing. The REV ION Build System is designed around #25 chain using compatible #25 sprockets.
Sprocket Basics
Sprockets are rotating parts that have teeth and can be used with a chain and another sprocket to transmit torque. Sprockets and chain can be used to change the speed, torque or direction of a motor. For sprockets and chain to be compatible with each other, they must have the same thickness and pitch.
Sprocket and chain is a very efficient way to transmit torque over long distances.
Sprockets consist of a disk with straight teeth projecting radially. Sprockets will only work correctly with chain and other sprockets if they are on parallel shafts and the teeth are in the same plane. A chain consists of a continuous set of links that ride on the sprockets to transmit motion. The REV ION Build System is designed around #25 Roller Chain (
REV-41-1365
) using compatible #25 Sprockets.
ION Sprockets
Our
#25 ION Sprockets
are compatible with the REV ION system and designed for use with
#25 Roller Chain.
These sprockets are flat and feature a MAXSpline and a 2in bolt circle that patterns outward radially, allow for bolting to structure easily. #25 Hub Sprockets feature a 1/2in hex bore or MAXSpline and transfer torque through a shaft. 1/2in Hex - 16 Tooth - Double sprockets available for chain in tube applications.
Anatomy of a Sprocket
The most common and important features of a sprocket are called out in the figure below.
Number of Teeth
Pitch Diameter
Pitch
Outside Diameter
Chain Clearance Diameter
Number of Teeth
is the total count of the
number of teeth
(projections) around the whole circumference of a sprocket. For sprockets with very few teeth this number is easily physically counted, but for high tooth counts this may not be isn’t very practical.
Pitch Diameter (PD)
is an imaginary circle which is traced by the center of the chain pins when the sprocket rotates while meshed with a chain. The ratio of the
pitch diameter
between sprockets can be used to calculate the gear ratio, but more commonly and much more simply the ratio of the
number of teeth
is used for this calculation.
Pitch
represents the amount of
pitch diameter
in inches per tooth. Sprockets with a larger
pitch
will have bigger teeth. Common pitches are 0.25”, known as #25, and 0.375” (#35). The REV Robotics building system uses #25 chain.
Outside Diameter (OD)
will always be larger than the
pitch diameter
but smaller than the
chain clearance diameter
. The
outside diameter
does not account for the additional diameter added by the chain, so it should not be used to check for assembly interference.
Chain Clearance Diameter
is the outside diameter of a sprocket with chain wrapped around it. The
chain clearance diameter
will always be larger than the
pitch diameter
and the
outside diameter
. The
chain clearance diameter
should be used when checking for interference when placing sprockets very close to other structures.
Anatomy of Chain
Roller chain is used to connect two sprockets together and transfer torque. Roller chain is made up of a series of inner and outer links connected together which forms a flexible strand.
Outside Links
Inside Links
Pitch
Outside Links
consist of two outside plates which are connected by two
pins
that are pressed into each plate. The
pins
in the outside link go through the inside of the hollow
bushings
when the inner and outer links are assembled. The
pins
can freely rotate on the inside of the
bushings
.
Inside Link
consist of two inside plates that are connected by two hollow
bushings
which are pressed into each plate. The teeth of the sprocket contact the surface of the
bushings
when the chain is wrapped around a sprocket.
Pitch
is the distance between the centers of two adjacent
pins
. Common pitches are 0.25”, known as #25, and 0.375” (#35). The REV 15mm Building System uses #25 chain.
Using Sprockets and Chain as a Powertrain
Transforming the
torque
and
speed
of the motion is accomplished by changing the size of the sprockets.
A
sprocket size ratio
is the relationship between the number of teeth of two sprockets (input and output). In the image below, the input sprocket is a 15 tooth sprocket and the output is a 20 tooth. The sprocket size ratio for the example is 20T:15T. The ratio in size from the
input
(driving) sprocket to the
output
(driven) sprocket determines if the output is
faster
(less torque) or has more
torque
(slower).
To learn more about ratio calculations for sprockets, check out the
Sprocket Ratio
section on our Advanced Page!
Chain Tension
In order for sprockets to work effectively, it’s important that the
center-to-center distance
is correctly adjusted. The sprocket and chain example with the red 'X', in the image below, may work under very light loads, but they will certainly not work and will skip under any significant loading. The sprockets in this example are too close together so chain is loose enough that it can skip on the sprocket teeth. The sprockets, with the green check mark, are correctly spaced which will provide smooth reliable operation.
To learn more about calculating center-to-center distance for sprockets visit the
Spacing and Center-to-Center Distance
section on the Advanced Sprockets and Chain Page.
The first step to getting ideal chain tension is to manipulate, or cut the chain to the correct size. Using the center-to-center distance calculation is one of the most accurate ways to find the chain size needed. Once sizing is approximated, use the Chain Tool (
REV-41-1442
) or Master Link (
REV-41-1366
) to break and reform the chain.
To learn more about using the Chain Tool and Master Link, check out the
Manipulating Chain
section.
Previous
Addendum Shifting in Gears
Next
Advanced Sprockets and Chain
Last updated
1 year ago
Was this helpful?