REV ION Build System
REV ION Build System Overview
FRC Robot Basics Guide
System Standards
Structure
Introduction to Structure
Brackets
MAXSpline Brackets
Structure Brackets
Actuator Brackets
MAX Pattern Plates
Hardware
Extrusion
Bumper Brackets
MAXComposite
Motion
Introduction to Motion
Shafts / Spacers / Collars
MAXHubs
Tubes / Bushings / Axles
Bearings / Bearing Blocks
Pivot Joints
Linear Actuators
Gears
Advanced Gears
Addendum Shifting in Gears
Sprockets and Chain
Advanced Sprockets and Chain
Chain Tool
Belts and Pulleys
Ratio Plates
NEO Brushless Motors
Servos
Smart Robot Servo
Wheels
Traction
Grip
Omni
Compliant
Flap
Gearboxes
2 Motor Gearbox - Through Bore
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox - Through Bore
MAXPlanetary System
System Features
Mounting Features
Load Ratings
Assembly Tips and Tricks
MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Build Guide
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Onshape
MAXSwerve Calibration
Wiring MAXSwerve
Programming MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Module Inspection
MAXSwerve Spiky Wheel
Aluminum MAXSwerve Wheels
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Evaluation
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Tread Reinforcement
MAXSwerve Tips and Tricks
Onshape Examples
Onshape CAD Examples
Low Complexity
Medium Complexity
High Complexity
Building Techniques
Supporting Motion
Constraining Motion
Build Guides
MAXSwerve Module Assembly
Motor Orientation
MAXSwerve SPARK MAX Mounting Bracket Assembly
MAXSwerve Pack Contents
MAXSwerve Assembly Tips
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Assembly
Elevator Bearing Block Assembly
MAXPlanetary Gearbox Assembly
NEO & CIM
NEO Vortex
NEO 550 & 550 Sized Motors
775 Sized Motors
Falcon
Shaft Retention Assembly
Spacer Installation
MAX 90 Degree Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Gearbox Assembly
Linear Actuator Assembly
MAX 180 Degree Gearbox Assembly
Drivetrain Bumper Kit Assembly
West Coast Drivetrain with MAXTube
AM14U5 (FRC Kit of Parts Chassis)
REV ION West Coast Drivetrain Assembly
REV ION Control System
REV Hardware Client
Power Distribution Hub
Radio Power Module
Mini Power Module
Brushless Motors and Controllers
Pneumatics
Sensors & Indicators
Powered by GitBook
On this page
3in MAXSwerve Module Assembly Instructions
Materials Needed
Top Plate Subassembly
Steering Gear Subassembly Part 1
MAXSwerve Wheel and Axle Subassembly
Active Fork Subassembly
Fork Insertion Subassembly
MAXSwerve Wheel Installation
Steering Gear Subassembly Part 2
UltraPlanetary Block Subassembly
Steering UltraPlanetary Subassembly
Steering Drive Installation
Top & Bottom Plate Mating
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
This assembly guide was updated in October 2024.
3in MAXSwerve Module Assembly Instructions
Teams should choose their preferred orientation of their motors prior to assembly. Images that detail the various options can be found here:
Motor Orientation
In the event your team feels the need to apply lubricant to the MAXSwerve Hardware during assembly, we recommend
Lucas LUC10533 White Lithium Grease
. We also recommend
WD-40 Specialist White Lithium Grease Spray
for post assembly applications.
Reference the
MAXSwerve Pack Contents Guide
for help identifying the Bearings, Spacers, and Hardware from your kit!
Materials Needed
Tools Needed
1/8" Hex Key - Button Head Hex Drive Screws #10-32 screws
5/32" Hex Key - Socket Head Screws #10-32
2.5mm Hex Key - M3 Socket Head Cap Screws
2mm Hex Key - M3 Button Head Screws
3/8" Socket Wrench or Combination Wrench - #10-32 Low Profile Nylon Lock Nuts
Several of the below steps call for the use of threadlocker with certain screws. We recommend
LOCTITE® Threadlocker Blue 242
or an equivalent threadlocker.
See our video "MAXSwerve Loctite Application" for some best practices to keep in mind during this step!
Greasing Guide
We recommend adding grease to your MAXSwerve Module(s) during assembly and reapplying as needed to maintain your drivetrain.
When applying the grease of your choice*, add a small amount to all of the gears in the MAXSwerve module, ensuring that it gets evenly distributed throughout the system. It is not necessary to grease the UltraPlanetary Gearbox Cartridges as they are pre-lubricated.
*We recommend using
White Lithium Grease
or
Red Tacky Grease
Top Plate Subassembly
8mm Output Motors MAXSwerve V1.1
NEO Vortex MAXSwerve Shaft
8mm Output Motors MAXSwerve V1.0
If your MAXSwerve Module Kits do not contain the 3in MAXSwerve Module V1 to V1.1 Upgrade Kit, please start at the
MAXSwerve V1.0 - Top Plate Subassembly
1) With the NEO motor sitting shaft upwards on a flat surface, position the Top Plate upside down on the motor boss- the small raised circle on the center of the motor. Align the motor holes for your preferred configuration, either left hand or right hand. 

CAD examples of those options can be found here:
NEO Orientation
2) Install the Through Bore Encoder on the motor shaft, lined up with the correct holes in the motor body for your preferred configuration. Ensure that the motor shaft is perfectly centered in the hex bore of the encoder. Fasten the encoder and motor together using two 1/2in 10-32 button head screws, applying threadlocker to the screws.

CAD examples of those options can be found here:
NEO Orientation
3) Install the Encoder Bridge into the Through Bore Encoder so that the hex side of the bridge rotates the Through Bore Encoder.
4) Slide the Pinion Spacer over the motor shaft press it into the Encoder Bridge.
5) Install Motor Key into motor shaft keyway. The key should fit into keyway and should rest on top of the Pinion spacer
6) Install the appropriate drive motor pinion for the preferred speed option (low, mid, or high) onto the motor shaft, with the pinion boss facing away from the motor as shown the the second image.

Set Top Plate subassembly aside.
The below instructions are for Top Plate Subassembly of a MAXSwerve Module with a NEO Vortex using the
Vortex Shaft - MAXSwerve Integrated Key
. The continuation of this assembly guide will show images of MAXSwerve Module assembled with a NEO Brushless Motor v1.1 as the next steps are identical across all motors.
1) With the NEO Vortex motor sitting shaft upwards on a flat surface, position the Top Plate upside down on the on the mounting surface of the SPARK Flex Motor Controller. † Align the motor holes for your preferred configuration, either left hand or right hand. 

CAD examples of those options can be found here:
NEO Orientation
2) Install the Through Bore Encoder on the motor shaft, lined up with the correct holes in the motor body for your preferred configuration. Ensure that the motor shaft is perfectly centered in the hex bore of the encoder. Fasten the encoder and motor together using two 1/2in 10-32 button head screws, applying threadlocker to the screws.

CAD examples of those options can be found here:
NEO Orientation
3) Install the Encoder Bridge into the Through Bore Encoder so that the hex side of the bridge rotates the Through Bore Encoder.
4) Install the appropriate motor pinion for the preferred speed option (low, mid, or high) onto the motor shaft, with the pinion boss facing away from the motor as shown the the second image.

Set Top Plate subassembly aside.
†
The instructions are the same for the NEO Vortex Solo Adapter.
MAXSwerve Module V1.0 - Top Plate Subassembly
1) With the NEO motor sitting shaft upwards on a flat surface, position the Top Plate upside down on the motor boss- the small raised circle on the center of the motor. Align the motor holes for your preferred configuration, either left hand or right hand. 

CAD examples of those options can be found here:
NEO Orientation
2) Install the Through Bore Encoder on the motor shaft, lined up with the correct holes in the motor body for your preferred configuration. Ensure that the motor shaft is perfectly centered in the hex bore of the encoder. Fasten the encoder and motor together using two 1/2in 10-32 button head screws, applying threadlocker to the screws.

CAD examples of those options can be found here:
NEO Orientation
3) Install Motor Key into motor shaft keyway. The thinnest part of the key should be facing towards the motor.
See our MAXSwerve assembly tips for additional images to help with proper key placement!
4) Align the Encoder Bridge’s clearance notch with the key in the motor shaft and insert the Encoder Bridge into the encoder.
Ensure that the notch in the key rests slightly above the lip of the encoder bridge, as shown in the cross-section to the right. See our
MAXSwerve Assembly Tips
if you are finding this step difficult.  

If the notch is not above the lip and falls into the slot, the module will NOT function properly and may get damaged.
5) Install the appropriate motor pinion for the preferred speed option (low, mid, or high) onto the motor shaft, with the pinion boss facing away from the motor as shown the the second image.

Set Top Plate subassembly aside.
Steering Gear Subassembly Part 1
1) Insert the main steering bearing into the Bottom Plate.
2) Install six 3/8in button head screws into the Bottom Plate to hold the main bearing in place, applying threadlocker to the screws. Set aside the Bottom Plate.
3) Take Steering Gear and insert the main Bevel Pinion bearing into the bottom side of the Steering Gear.
4) Insert Steering Gear into Bottom Plate.
5) Flip the Bottom Plate over and insert the Bevel Pinion into the Bevel Pinion bearing.

Set Steering subassembly aside.
MAXSwerve Wheel and Axle Subassembly
Some 3in MAXSwerve Module Wheel Axles may not be a slip fit. Please see our MAXSwerve Assembly Tips section for a solution:
Wheel Axle - Tight Fit
1) Insert the Wheel Hub into the MAXSwerve Wheel. Take care to align the holes in the wheel and the hub.
2) Insert the Wheel Bevel Gear into the opposite side of the wheel. Take care to align the holes in the wheel and the gear.
3) Fasten the Wheel Hub and Wheel Bevel Gear to the MAXSwerve Wheel with six 1in long 10-32 button head screws, applying threadlocker to the screws.
These screws are inserted through the Wheel Hub side and are threaded into the Wheel Bevel Gear.

Checkout our
video on threadlocker application
for tips and tricks.
4) Insert the two wheel bearings into either side of the MAXSwerve Wheel Assembly. One bearing should go into the Wheel Bevel Gear, and one bearing should go into the Wheel Hub.
5) Insert the Wheel Axle through the wheel bearings.

If you struggle to put the Wheel Axle through the bearings, it may be easier to put a bearing on one side of the Axle, and then "sandwich" other the bearing onto the Axle and into the Wheel.
6) Place the two wheel spacers onto the Wheel Axle, one on either side of the MAXSwerve Wheel.
Active Fork Subassembly
1) Install the two Bevel Pinion end bearings into the Active Fork.

Set the Active Fork aside.
Fork Insertion Subassembly
1) Insert the Active Fork Subassembly into the pocket on the bottom side of the Steering Gear. Ensure that the Bevel Pinion is inserted properly into the end bearings in the Active Fork.
2) Fasten the Active Fork in place with two 1in 10-32 socket head screws, applying threadlocker to the screws. Leave these screws slightly loose.
Remember to come back after MAXSwerve Wheel Installation and tighten these screws in the same day to ensure the threadlocker is effective.
3) Insert the Passive Fork into the Steering Gear opposite from the Active Fork. Fasten the Passive Fork in place with two 1in 10-32 socket head screws, applying threadlocker to the screws. Leave these screws slightly loose.
Remember to come back after MAXSwerve Wheel Installation and tighten these screws in the same day to ensure the threadlocker is effective.
MAXSwerve Wheel Installation
1) Insert the MAXSwerve Wheel Subassembly between the two forks
with the Wheel Bevel Gear engaged with the Bevel Pinion.
2) Apply threadlocker to a 2in 10-32 socket head screw and insert it through the Passive Fork, through the Wheel Axle, and thread it into the Active Fork. Leave this screw slightly loose.
3) Tighten the four screws holding the forks in (see the orange arrow), and tighten the Wheel Axle screw. If you have a torque wrench tight these screws to ~15 Inch-lbs Min ~19 Inch-lbs Max.
Do not overtighten these screws.
Steering Gear Subassembly Part 2
1) Install the Steering Pinion bearing into the top of the Bottom Plate.
2) Insert motor shaft bearing into the top of the Steering Gear.
If you are experiencing the motor shaft bearing falling out of the gear you can use two small strips of tape on two sides of the bearing to keep it in place.
3) Fasten the Drive Spur Gear onto Bevel Pinion shaft with one 3/8in 10-32 button head screw, applying threadlocker to the screw.
If you are having difficultly tightening the screw, we recommend firmly gripping the MAXSwerve wheel and the Forks at the same time.
UltraPlanetary Block Subassembly
1) Install one of the two Steering Pinion bearings into the UltraPlanetary Block.
2) Install the Steering Pinion into the UltraPlanetary Block.

Set the UltraPlanetary Block aside.
The Steering UltraPlanetary Subassembly is dependent on which orientation (left hand or right hand) was chosen during Top Plate Subassembly.
Steering UltraPlanetary Subassembly
Some of the UltraPlanetary Cartridges have a mounting hole that is partially closed. Please see our guide on how to fix this:
UltraPlanetary Mounting Holes Fix
1) Install the UltraPlanetary 550 Motor Pinion onto the NEO 550.

See our
documentation on the NEO 550 Product Page
for more information about pressing pinions onto NEO 550s and using NEO 550s with UltraPlanetary Gearboxes.
2) Install the UltraPlanetary Motor Plate on the NEO 550 with two 8mm M3 button head screws, applying threadlocker to the screws. Ensure that you orient the motor based on the configuration chosen. 

CAD examples of those NEO 550 orientations can be found here:
NEO 550 Orientation Options
3) Stack the 4:1 UltraPlanetary Cartridge onto the UltraPlanetary Motor Plate, followed by the 3:1 Cartridge, and the UltraPlanetary Block (with steering pinion). Ensure that these components are oriented to allow alignment features to interlock, and that they provide the correct wire orientation for your configuration. 

CAD examples of those wire configurations can be found here:
NEO 550 Orientation Options
Ensure that the pinion is fully engaged with the UltraPlanetary Cartridge output spline and fully inserted into the bearing in the UltraPlanetary Block.
4) Install and tighten two 25mm M3 socket head screws, applying threadlocker to the screws, into the notched side of the UltraPlanetary Block, through the UltraPlanetary stack, and into the UltraPlanetary Motor Plate.
Take care not to over-tighten the gearbox housing screws. Hand tight is enough to keep the gearbox assembled.
If you forgot to apply threadlocker during the assembly of the UltraPlanetary Subassembly you can use a
Wicking Grade Threadlocker
to apply threadlocker to the pre-assembled gearbox.
For instructions see our
MAXSwerve Assembly Tips
section
Steering Drive Installation
1) Install the UltraPlanetary stack on the top of the Bottom Plate. The end of the Steering Pinion should be inserted into the Steering Pinion bearing.
2) We recommend applying more threadlocker than you normally would in this step. Install and tighten four 60mm M3 socket head screws, applying threadlocker to the screws, through the Bottom Plate, through the UltraPlanetary stack, and into the UltraPlanetary Motor Plate.
Take care not to overtighten the screws. We recommend applying threadlocker then tighten all screws until the screw heads are touching the output plate or the outermost metal.
Tighten screws in a star pattern (see photo) a 1/4 turn each at a time until the gearbox becomes noticeably harder to spin by hand then back out the screws 1/2 turn.
Let the threadlocker cure for a full 24 hours before use.
3) Spin the fork and wheel assembly by hand to check that it moves freely. It should move easily and quickly coast to stop, continuing to rotate with some inertia, in both directions. The torque required to spin it should be uniform through an entire rotation.
If significant resistance is felt, check that the leads from the NEO 550 aren't touching each other, as this can produce an artificial braking effect.
Top & Bottom Plate Mating
1) Set the Top Plate Subassembly upside down on a flat surface.
2) Place the three structural standoffs into their respective pockets in the inverted Top Plate.
3) Retrieve the Bottom Plate Subassembly. Place it upside down, and drop three 2in long 10-32 socket head screws into the appropriate holes in the bottom plate.
If you are having issues with these screws issues with these screws falling out, we recommend placing a small amount of tape over the screw holes in the bottom plate. 

If you are experiencing the motor shaft bearing falling out of the gear you can use two small strips of tape on two sides of the bearing to keep it in place.
4) Carefully lower the Bottom Plate Subassembly down on top of the inverted Top Plate Subassembly. Ensure that the screws line up with (and slide inside) the structural standoffs. 

It may be necessary to rotate the MAXSwerve Wheel Subassembly to properly line up the four holes in the Steering Gear with the four pegs on the Encoder Bridge.
5) Insert three Nylock Nuts into the pockets on the Top Plate, and thread the 2in socket head screws into them. Tighten down the screws.
6) Test spin the module by hand, both rolling the wheel and rotating the steering. It should move easily and quickly coast to stop, continuing to rotate with some inertia, in both directions. The torque required to spin it should be uniform through an entire rotation.
Once you assemble your MAXSwerve Modules onto your Drivetrain, check out the following sections for help to start moving!
Wiring MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Calibration
Programming MAXSwerve
Previous
Constraining Motion
Next
Motor Orientation
Last updated
1 month ago
Was this helpful?