REV ION Control System
REV ION Control System Overview
Quick Links
Frequently Asked Questions
Power Distribution Hub
Power Distribution Hub Overview
Power Distribution Hub Specifications
Getting Started with the Power Distribution Hub
Wiring the Power Distribution Hub
Power Distribution Hub Status LED Patterns
Power Distribution Hub Troubleshooting
Power Distribution Hub Firmware Changelog
Pneumatic Hub
Pneumatic Hub Overview
Pneumatic Hub Specifications
Getting Started with the Pneumatic Hub
Wiring the Pneumatic Hub
Pneumatic Hub Status LED Patterns
Pneumatic Hub Troubleshooting
Pneumatic Hub Firmware Changelog
Radio Power Module
Radio Power Module Overview
Radio Power Module Specifications
Getting Started with the Radio Power Module
RPM Compatibility with the new FRC Radio
Mini Power Module
Mini Power Module Overview
Mini Power Module Specifications
Mini Power Module Status LED Patterns
Sensors
2m Distance Sensor
Color Sensor V3
Magnetic Limit Switch
Potentiometer
Through Bore Encoder
Touch Sensor
Accessories
Blinkin LED Driver
Digital LED Indicator
Servo Power Module
POE Injector Cable
JST PH 6-Pin Breakout Board
JST PH 6-pin Joiner Board
Software Resources
REV Hardware Client Documentation
REVLib
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Power Distribution Hub Wiring Diagram
Latching WAGO Terminals: Battery Input and High-Current Channels
Push-Button WAGO Terminals: CAN and Low-Current Channels
Circuit Breakers
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
Power Distribution Hub Wiring Diagram
Always make sure the the Power Distribution Hub is disconnected from any power source before adding or modifying connections.
Latching WAGO Terminals: Battery Input and High-Current Channels
For Battery Input use 18 to 4 AWG Wire, Stripped back ~0.75” (20mm)
For High-Current Channels use 24 to 8 AWG Wire, Stripped back ~0.5” (12mm)
Flip open the lever with an upward motion.
You can open the lever all the way to have it stay open or you can open it half way for quick wire changes.
Insert stripped wire into connector opening.
Push down the lever.
Test the wire by giving it a
smart tug
to ensure wire is connected securely.
Visually inspect to make sure no stray wires are outside of the connector port.
Smart Tug
- tugging on a wire to test the connection with a reasonable amount of force.
Push-Button WAGO Terminals: CAN and Low-Current Channels
Use 24 to 18 AWG Wire, Stripped back ~0.35” (8mm)
Press and hold down connector button.
Insert stripped wire into connector opening.
Release connector button.
Test the wire by giving it a
smart tug
to ensure wire is connected securely.
Visually inspect to make sure no stray wires are outside of the connector port.
Circuit Breakers
Carefully insert the Circuit Breaker (CB) directly into the circuit breaker holder. Ensure that the blades of the circuit breaker slide into the circuit breaker holder.
Circuit breakers should not be loose or move at all when inserted correctly.
If the circuit breaker is loose, remove the circuit breaker and make sure you can see the opening on the circuit breaker holder, then reinsert into the holder.
New circuit breaker holders fit circuit breakers tightly. This can make it hard to pull out the circuit breaker.
Over time circuit breaker holders will become easier to use and stay snug!
When removing a circuit breaker, make sure to rock the circuit breaker back and forth to make it easier to pull up on.
Previous
Getting Started with the Power Distribution Hub
Next
Power Distribution Hub Status LED Patterns
Last updated
1 year ago
Was this helpful?