REV ION Build System
REV ION Build System Overview
FRC Robot Basics Guide
System Standards
Structure
Introduction to Structure
Brackets
MAXSpline Brackets
Structure Brackets
Actuator Brackets
MAX Pattern Plates
Hardware
Extrusion
Bumper Brackets
MAXComposite
Motion
Introduction to Motion
Shafts / Spacers / Collars
MAXHubs
Tubes / Bushings / Axles
Bearings / Bearing Blocks
Pivot Joints
Linear Actuators
Gears
Advanced Gears
Addendum Shifting in Gears
Sprockets and Chain
Advanced Sprockets and Chain
Chain Tool
Belts and Pulleys
Ratio Plates
NEO Brushless Motors
Servos
Smart Robot Servo
Wheels
Traction
Grip
Omni
Compliant
Flap
Gearboxes
2 Motor Gearbox - Through Bore
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox - Through Bore
MAXPlanetary System
System Features
Mounting Features
Load Ratings
Assembly Tips and Tricks
MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Build Guide
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Onshape
MAXSwerve Calibration
Wiring MAXSwerve
Programming MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Module Inspection
MAXSwerve Spiky Wheel
Aluminum MAXSwerve Wheels
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Evaluation
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Tread Reinforcement
MAXSwerve Tips and Tricks
Onshape Examples
Onshape CAD Examples
Low Complexity
Medium Complexity
High Complexity
Building Techniques
Supporting Motion
Constraining Motion
Build Guides
MAXSwerve Module Assembly
Motor Orientation
MAXSwerve SPARK MAX Mounting Bracket Assembly
MAXSwerve Pack Contents
MAXSwerve Assembly Tips
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Assembly
Elevator Bearing Block Assembly
MAXPlanetary Gearbox Assembly
NEO & CIM
NEO Vortex
NEO 550 & 550 Sized Motors
775 Sized Motors
Falcon
Shaft Retention Assembly
Spacer Installation
MAX 90 Degree Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Gearbox Assembly
Linear Actuator Assembly
MAX 180 Degree Gearbox Assembly
Drivetrain Bumper Kit Assembly
West Coast Drivetrain with MAXTube
AM14U5 (FRC Kit of Parts Chassis)
REV ION West Coast Drivetrain Assembly
REV ION Control System
REV Hardware Client
Power Distribution Hub
Radio Power Module
Mini Power Module
Brushless Motors and Controllers
Pneumatics
Sensors & Indicators
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Gear Basics
Anatomy of a Spur Gear
20DP Pocketed Gears
Gear Alignment Mark
Using Gears as a Powertrain
Gear Spacing
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
Gear Basics
Gears have teeth that mesh with other gears in order to transmit torque. Gears can be used to change the speed, torque (turning force), or direction of a motor’s original output. For gears to be compatible with each other, the meshing teeth must have the same shape (size and pitch). Gears are ideal for use in more compact spaces and are also used for changing the direction of rotation.
Gears offer more flexibility in transforming motion than sprockets and chain because there are a larger variety of gear sizes available.
There are many different types of gears; one of the simplest and most commonly used is a spur gear, and that is the gear type used in the REV ION System. Spur gears consist of a disk with straight teeth projecting radially (outward from the center) and these gears will only mesh correctly with other gears if they are on parallel shafts.
Anatomy of a Spur Gear
Documentation Coming Soon!
20DP Pocketed Gears
All REV ION Gears are 20DP, made of 4140 Steel, and pocketed to reduce weight. Our REV ION 20DP Gears
(Product Family Page)
come in a wide range of sizes and bores including MAXSpline, 1/2in Hex, and 1/2in Rounded Hex. Larger gears include #10 clearance hole patterns, 2in bolt circle, and MAXTube mounting pattern.
DP stands for Diametral Pitch. The diametral pitch of a gear is the number of teeth in the gear for each inch of pitch diameter. So, a 20DP gear has 20 teeth per inch.
Gear Alignment Mark
Sometimes in a design it may be desirable to stack together multiples of the same gear on a shaft to increase the load carrying capacity of the gears. In the case where the number of teeth on the gear is not divisible by six, because of how they are oriented when put onto the hex shaft, the teeth may not be aligned between the two gears. To ensure all of the gears are clocked the same way, use the alignment shaft notch to put all the gears on the shaft with the same orientation.
Using Gears as a Powertrain
Meshing two or more gears together is known as a
gear train
. Selecting the gears in the gear train as larger or smaller relative to the input gear can either increase the output
speed
, or increase the output
torque
but the
total power
is not affected.
A
gear ratio
is the ratio of the sizes of two gears. For instance, in the image below, the
input gear
is a 15 tooth gear and the output gear is a 72 tooth gear. So, the
gear ratio
is 72T:15T. The
ratio
in size from the input (driving) gear to the output (driven) gear determines if the output is faster (less torque) or has more torque (slower). The gear ratio is proportional to the speed and torque changes between them.
In the image above, the 15 tooth input gear is rotating clockwise. As the input gear rotates, it pushes down on the output gear where the teeth are meshed. This action transmits the motion to the output gear, but forces the output gear to rotate in the opposite direction of the input gear.
When assembling the gear train we recommend adding grease during assembly and re-applying as needed for the maintenance of your mechanism. For most applications, using
White Lithium Grease
or
Red Tacky Grease
will provide sufficient lubrication.
Gear Spacing
In order for gears to work effectively, and not become damaged, it’s important that the
center-to-center distance
is correctly adjusted. The gears in DETAIL A of the figure below may work under very light load, but they will certainly not work and will skip under any significant loading. The gears in that example are too far apart, and the teeth of each gear barely contact each other. The gears in DETAIL B are correctly spaced and will provide smooth and reliable operation.
To learn more about calculating center-to-center distance for Gears visit the
Center-to-Center Distance Section
.
Previous
Linear Actuators
Next
Advanced Gears
Last updated
1 year ago
Was this helpful?