REV ION Build System
REV ION Build System Overview
FRC Robot Basics Guide
System Standards
Structure
Introduction to Structure
Brackets
MAXSpline Brackets
Structure Brackets
Actuator Brackets
MAX Pattern Plates
Hardware
Extrusion
Bumper Brackets
MAXComposite
Motion
Introduction to Motion
Shafts / Spacers / Collars
MAXHubs
Tubes / Bushings / Axles
Bearings / Bearing Blocks
Pivot Joints
Linear Actuators
Gears
Advanced Gears
Addendum Shifting in Gears
Sprockets and Chain
Advanced Sprockets and Chain
Chain Tool
Belts and Pulleys
Ratio Plates
NEO Brushless Motors
Servos
Smart Robot Servo
Wheels
Traction
Grip
Omni
Compliant
Flap
Gearboxes
2 Motor Gearbox - Through Bore
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox - Through Bore
MAXPlanetary System
System Features
Mounting Features
Load Ratings
Assembly Tips and Tricks
MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Build Guide
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Onshape
MAXSwerve Calibration
Wiring MAXSwerve
Programming MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Module Inspection
MAXSwerve Spiky Wheel
Aluminum MAXSwerve Wheels
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Evaluation
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Tread Reinforcement
MAXSwerve Tips and Tricks
Onshape Examples
Onshape CAD Examples
Low Complexity
Medium Complexity
High Complexity
Building Techniques
Supporting Motion
Constraining Motion
Build Guides
MAXSwerve Module Assembly
Motor Orientation
MAXSwerve SPARK MAX Mounting Bracket Assembly
MAXSwerve Pack Contents
MAXSwerve Assembly Tips
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Assembly
Elevator Bearing Block Assembly
MAXPlanetary Gearbox Assembly
NEO & CIM
NEO Vortex
NEO 550 & 550 Sized Motors
775 Sized Motors
Falcon
Shaft Retention Assembly
Spacer Installation
MAX 90 Degree Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Gearbox Assembly
Linear Actuator Assembly
MAX 180 Degree Gearbox Assembly
Drivetrain Bumper Kit Assembly
West Coast Drivetrain with MAXTube
AM14U5 (FRC Kit of Parts Chassis)
REV ION West Coast Drivetrain Assembly
REV ION Control System
REV Hardware Client
Power Distribution Hub
Radio Power Module
Mini Power Module
Brushless Motors and Controllers
Pneumatics
Sensors & Indicators
Powered by GitBook
On this page
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox - Through Bore Assembly Instructions
Greasing Guide
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox - Through Bore Assembly Instructions
Greasing Guide
When assembling the 2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox we recommend adding grease during assembly and re-applying as needed for the maintenance of your mechanism. For most applications, using
White Lithium Grease
or
Red Tacky Grease
will provide sufficient lubrication.
When applying the grease of your choice, add a small amount to the gearbox’s gears, ensuring that it gets evenly distributed throughout the system.
1) Start with the 2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox Motor Plate- the larger of the two plates included in the base kit.
2) Affix your motors to the Motor Plate using four 1/2in long 10-32 button head screws.
3) Install a Flanged Bearing for 1/2in Rounded Hex into the smaller hole of the Motor Plate, and install the larger Flanged Bearing in the larger hole of the Motor Plate. The flanges should face away from the motors.
4) Insert the 1/2in Hex Cluster Shaft into the smaller Flanged Bearing, and insert the 1/2in Hex Through Bore Shaft into the larger Flanged Bearing on the Motor Plate.
5) Install the 1/2in MAXSpline spacer on the output shaft of the gearbox.
6) Install the gears onto the shafts. First, the 52-tooth gear goes on the cluster shaft closest to the motors. The smaller hex bore gear then also goes on the cluster shaft, and the larger MAXSpline gear goes on the output shaft. See the product page to determine the appropriate Wheel Gear Ratio here:
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox - Through Bore
7) Insert the 2mm keys into the motor shaft keyways.
8) Slide the appropriate pinions, based on the speed option of your gearbox, onto the motor shafts.
9) Install the external retaining rings on the ends of the motor shafts.

If you are having difficulty installing the retaining rings, you can use a socket to press the retaining ring onto the shaft. We recommend a 10mm (3/8in) deep socket.
10) Retrieve the Output Plate from the kit, and install a Flanged Bearing for 1/2in Rounded Hex into the smaller hole of the Output Plate, and install the larger Flanged Bearing in the larger hole of the Output Plate.
11) Slide the Output Plate with bearings onto the ends of the shafts of the Motor Plate. The flanges of the bearings should face inwards, towards the gears.
12a) Slide a 1-1/8in spacer between the two plates and line it up with one of the holes near the middle of the plates.
12b) Install a 1-5/8in long 10-32 button head screw through the Output Plate, through the spacer, and into the Motor Plate. Leave this screw loose, for now.
12c) Repeat steps 12a-12b for the other screw and spacer on the top left side of the plate.
13a) Slide a 1-1/8in spacer between the two plates and line it up with one of the holes near the bottom of the plates, on the far outside edges.
13b) Install a 2in long 10-32 button head screw through the Output Plate, through the spacer, through the Motor Plate, and retain it with a locknut at the end. Leave this screw loose, for now.
13c) Repeat steps 13a-13b for the other screw and spacer on the bottom left side of the plate.
14) Ensure that the gearbox is well-aligned, and then begin tightening the four screws holding the Motor and Output plates together.
Note: Do not tighten one screw all the way tight before tightening the other screws. Alternate between tightening all of the screws a little bit at a time.
For best results, spin the gearbox by hand between tightening each screw until you have completed assembly!
Previous
MAX 90 Degree Gearbox Assembly
Next
2 Motor Gearbox Assembly
Last updated
9 months ago
Was this helpful?