REV ION Build System
REV ION Build System Overview
FRC Robot Basics Guide
System Standards
Structure
Introduction to Structure
Brackets
MAXSpline Brackets
Structure Brackets
Actuator Brackets
MAX Pattern Plates
Hardware
Extrusion
Bumper Brackets
MAXComposite
Motion
Introduction to Motion
Shafts / Spacers / Collars
MAXHubs
Tubes / Bushings / Axles
Bearings / Bearing Blocks
Pivot Joints
Linear Actuators
Gears
Advanced Gears
Addendum Shifting in Gears
Sprockets and Chain
Advanced Sprockets and Chain
Chain Tool
Belts and Pulleys
Ratio Plates
NEO Brushless Motors
Servos
Smart Robot Servo
Wheels
Traction
Grip
Omni
Compliant
Flap
Gearboxes
2 Motor Gearbox - Through Bore
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox - Through Bore
MAXPlanetary System
System Features
Mounting Features
Load Ratings
Assembly Tips and Tricks
MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Build Guide
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Onshape
MAXSwerve Calibration
Wiring MAXSwerve
Programming MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Module Inspection
MAXSwerve Spiky Wheel
Aluminum MAXSwerve Wheels
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Evaluation
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Tread Reinforcement
MAXSwerve Tips and Tricks
Onshape Examples
Onshape CAD Examples
Low Complexity
Medium Complexity
High Complexity
Building Techniques
Supporting Motion
Constraining Motion
Build Guides
MAXSwerve Module Assembly
Motor Orientation
MAXSwerve SPARK MAX Mounting Bracket Assembly
MAXSwerve Pack Contents
MAXSwerve Assembly Tips
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Assembly
Elevator Bearing Block Assembly
MAXPlanetary Gearbox Assembly
NEO & CIM
NEO Vortex
NEO 550 & 550 Sized Motors
775 Sized Motors
Falcon
Shaft Retention Assembly
Spacer Installation
MAX 90 Degree Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Gearbox Assembly
Linear Actuator Assembly
MAX 180 Degree Gearbox Assembly
Drivetrain Bumper Kit Assembly
West Coast Drivetrain with MAXTube
AM14U5 (FRC Kit of Parts Chassis)
REV ION West Coast Drivetrain Assembly
REV ION Control System
REV Hardware Client
Power Distribution Hub
Radio Power Module
Mini Power Module
Brushless Motors and Controllers
Pneumatics
Sensors & Indicators
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Shafts
MAXSpline Shaft
1/2in Rounded Hex Shaft
1/2in Hex Shaft Adapters
Spacers
MAXSpline Spacers
MAXSpline Spacer with MAX Pattern
1/2in Hex Shaft Spacers
8mm Shaft Spacer
#10 Spacers
Collars / Shaft End Screw
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
One of the oldest and least used shaft types is a D-shaft - a round shaft with one flat side that makes a D shape. To transmit motion with a D-shaft, shaft collars and motion components are secured to the flat side of the shaft using a set screw. Transferring torque through a set screw can cause failure in hightorque applications, and the set screws require re-tightening under the best of circumstances, so this method is generally not recommended
Another shaft type commonly found on motors and gearboxes are Keyed Shafts. These consist of two parts: a round shaft with a groove called a keyway, and a key that fits into that groove. Components attached to keyed shafts will also have a keyway, as the key is how torque is transferred from the shaft.
Shafts
MAXSpline Shaft
MAXSpline Shaft (
REV-21-2520
) is compatible with the REV ION System and is an extruded aluminum MAXSpline that provides a high strength alternative to 1/2in hex shaft that can interface with any REV ION system components. The inner diameter is 1in and can fit a Needle Bearing for dead axle applications.
1/2in Rounded Hex Shaft
The 1/2in Rounded Hex Shafts (
Product Family Page
) are a ready-to-use hex shaft that have been cut to length and have the ends tapped #10-32 in order to accept a screw and washer or a shaft collar. We've rounded the corners to form a 13.75mm circle that allows the shaft to pilot inside our Flanged Bearings (
Product Family Page
) resulting in an exceptionally smooth assembly and driving experience. Additionally, an untapped 36in shaft is available if you need to create a custom cut length.
Diameter
Length
Tapped
1/2in Rounded Hex
1.0-8.0in
#10-32 tapped
1/2in Rounded Hex
36in
Not Tapped
1/2in Hex Shaft Adapters
Convert different output types to 1/2in Hex Shaft to interface with the REV ION Build System using our different 1/2in Hex Shaft Adapters.
UltraPlanetary 1/2in Hex Adapter
Easily attach the UltraPlanetary 1/2in Hex Adapter
(REV-41-1620)
to the output of your UltraPlanetary Gearbox to provide a convenient 1/2in hex output shaft
8mm to 1/2in Hex Adapter
With the 8mm to 1/2in Hex Adapter
(REV-21-1879)
you can convert 8mm keyed shafts to drive 1/2in hex bore wheels, sprockets, gears, and more! Use these with any motors that have a 8mm round keyed output shaft, like the NEO Brushless Motor
(REV-21-1650)
.
Spacers
MAXSpline Spacers
MAXSpline Spacers
(Product Family Page)
are compatible with the REV ION System and can be used on the shaft as a spacer for wheels and sprockets as well as an in-between spacer for bearings.
MAXSpline Spacer with MAX Pattern
Primarily used with ION wheels and sprockets, the MAXSpline Spacer with MAX Pattern
(REV-21-2547-PK4)
features a 2in bolt circle pattern allowing it to be bolted directly to structural members like MAXTubes and the bolt circle allows it to be mounted to motion components as well.
1/2in Hex Shaft Spacers
1/2in Hex Shaft Spacers
(Product Family Page)
are primarily used with a hex shaft as a spacer between components with 1/16in, 1/8in, 1/4in, 1/2in widths available.
Diameter
Length
1/2in Rounded Hex
1/16in
1/2in Rounded Hex
1/8in
1/2in Rounded Hex
1/4in
1/2in Rounded Hex
1/2in
8mm Shaft Spacer
The 8mm Shaft Spacer
(Product Family Page)
is compatible with the REV ION System and is a convenient way to space pinions and gears along the shaft of the NEO Brushless Motor.
#10 Spacers
Compatible with the REV ION System and are an accurate way to space structural components like plates, brackets, or tubes apart on #10 screws. Our #10 Spacers
(Product Family Page)
can also be used to to space motion components like gearboxes away from their mounting surface. Mix and match various spacer lengths to adjust spacing in increments as small as 1/8in.
Outside Diameter
Length
3/8in
1/8in
3/8in
1/4in
3/8in
3/8in
3/8in
1/2in
3/8in
3/4in
3/8in
1in
3/8in
1-1/8in
3/8in
1-1/2in
3/8in
2in
Collars / Shaft End Screw
#10-32 Shaft End Screw
(REV-21-2056-PK10)
ION 1/2in Rounded Hex Shafts come tapped with a 10-32 hole. Use this special screw to retain things on any of our hex shafts instead of shaft collars. The integrated flange is larger than the outside diameter of the shaft and will keep motion components from sliding off the end of the shaft and a nylon patch helps keep it secured in high vibration environments.
MAXSpline Shaft Collar - 2 Piece - Aluminum
(REV-21-2581)
The MAXSpline Shaft Collar provides a simple way to retain items in place on the MAXSpline Shaft. The shaft collar can also be bolted to structure to constrain the axial alignment of MAXSpline Shaft when used in a structural method.
2 Piece Shaft Collar - 1/2in Hex Bore
(
REV-21-1912-PK4
)The 2-Piece 1/2in Hex Plastic Shaft Collar is used to prevent gears, sprockets, wheels, and other parts from sliding out of place on a 1/2in hex shaft. The two-piece design allows you to install the shaft collar onto a shaft without having to remove other parts or having access to the ends of the shaft. Tighten the two screws to secure the shaft collar onto the shaft. Screws require a 5/32in hex driver (not included).
1 Piece Shaft Collar - 1/2in Hex Bore
(REV-21-1911-PK4)
The 1-Piece 1/2in Hex Plastic Shaft Collar is used to prevent gears, sprockets, wheels, and other parts from sliding out of place on a 1/2in hex shaft. Tighten the screw to secure the shaft collar onto the shaft. Screw requires a 5/32in hex driver (not included)
Previous
Introduction to Motion
Next
MAXHubs
Last updated
2 months ago
Was this helpful?