REV ION Build System
REV ION Build System Overview
FRC Robot Basics Guide
System Standards
Structure
Introduction to Structure
Brackets
MAXSpline Brackets
Structure Brackets
Actuator Brackets
MAX Pattern Plates
Hardware
Extrusion
Bumper Brackets
MAXComposite
Motion
Introduction to Motion
Shafts / Spacers / Collars
MAXHubs
Tubes / Bushings / Axles
Bearings / Bearing Blocks
Pivot Joints
Linear Actuators
Gears
Advanced Gears
Addendum Shifting in Gears
Sprockets and Chain
Advanced Sprockets and Chain
Chain Tool
Belts and Pulleys
Ratio Plates
NEO Brushless Motors
Servos
Smart Robot Servo
Wheels
Traction
Grip
Omni
Compliant
Flap
Gearboxes
2 Motor Gearbox - Through Bore
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox - Through Bore
MAXPlanetary System
System Features
Mounting Features
Load Ratings
Assembly Tips and Tricks
MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Build Guide
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Onshape
MAXSwerve Calibration
Wiring MAXSwerve
Programming MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Module Inspection
MAXSwerve Spiky Wheel
Aluminum MAXSwerve Wheels
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Evaluation
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Tread Reinforcement
MAXSwerve Tips and Tricks
Onshape Examples
Onshape CAD Examples
Low Complexity
Medium Complexity
High Complexity
Building Techniques
Supporting Motion
Constraining Motion
Build Guides
MAXSwerve Module Assembly
Motor Orientation
MAXSwerve SPARK MAX Mounting Bracket Assembly
MAXSwerve Pack Contents
MAXSwerve Assembly Tips
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Assembly
Elevator Bearing Block Assembly
MAXPlanetary Gearbox Assembly
NEO & CIM
NEO Vortex
NEO 550 & 550 Sized Motors
775 Sized Motors
Falcon
Shaft Retention Assembly
Spacer Installation
MAX 90 Degree Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Gearbox Assembly
Linear Actuator Assembly
MAX 180 Degree Gearbox Assembly
Drivetrain Bumper Kit Assembly
West Coast Drivetrain with MAXTube
AM14U5 (FRC Kit of Parts Chassis)
REV ION West Coast Drivetrain Assembly
REV ION Control System
REV Hardware Client
Power Distribution Hub
Radio Power Module
Mini Power Module
Brushless Motors and Controllers
Pneumatics
Sensors & Indicators
Powered by GitBook
On this page
NEO Multi-Stage Assembly Instructions
Greasing Guide
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
NEO Multi-Stage Assembly Instructions
For assembly you will need a 5/32" Allen Wrench.
1) Place the Universal Input Stage on the motor.
2) Align two of the mounting holes on the motor with the holes in the input stage.
3) Insert the 1/2in long 10-32 Socket Head Cap Screws in the motor mounting holes and tighten them down.
Note: It is a best practice to spin both screws all the way into the holes without tightening them and then alternate between tightening the two screws to snug them up.
4) Insert the 2mm key in the motor shaft keyway.
Note: The key should be located as close to the motor as the keyway will allow.
5) Align the key with the keyway in the Input Coupler.
6) Slide the Input Coupler on the motor shaft.  Ensure that the key is engaged and the Input Coupler has been slid all the way against the motor.
If your robot requires shaft retention in the gearbox, follow the
Shaft Retention Assembly
instructions now before proceeding.
When building your gearbox make sure the highest gear reduction is closest to the motor.
Greasing Guide
MAXPlanetary Gearbox Cartridges are pre-lubricated and sealed. If during maintenance you find that a cartridge needs more grease, we recommend using a Molybdenum Grease to apply more lubrication such as
Synthetic NLGI #2 Molybdenum Grease
or
MOLYKOTE® G-2008 Synthetic Tool Gear Grease
.
7) Place the appropriate gear cartridge on the 1/2" Hex Socket Output.
Note: The cartridge may need to be rotated to get the splines to line up.  Once the splines are inserted continue to rotate the cartridge to ensure that the alignment features are completely engaged.
8) Continue stacking gear cartridges backwards towards the motor in the appropriate order.
Note: Ensure that the alignment features of each cartridge are properly engaged with the cartridges next to it.
9) Align the stacked output stage and gear cartridges with the input stage.
10a) Slide the stack of gear cartridges onto the motor shaft and input stage.  Ensure that the input spline on the rear gear cartridge and the input coupler are properly engaged.
Note: This may require twisting by hand the gear cartridges slightly to line up the splines and then rotating back once the spline is engaged.  Make sure the entire stack is pressed together and all alignment features are properly engaged.
10b) Gap - Having a gap in this location is bad. If a gap is present, it means that all alignment features are not properly engaged. This may require twisting by hand the gear cartridges slightly to line up the splines and then rotating back once the spline is engaged. Make sure the stack is fully seated and no gap is present before inserting and tightening the gearbox assembly screws
11) Insert the appropriate length of 10-32 Socket Head Cap Screws into the gearbox assembly holes
0 Cartridges: 1/2in Long Screws
1 Cartridge: 1in Long Screws
2 Cartridges: 1-1/2in Long Screws
3 Cartridges: 2in Long Screws
12) Tighten the gearbox assembly screws down.
Note: It is a best practice to spin both screws all the way into the holes without tightening them and then alternate between tightening the two screws to snug them up.
Previous
MAXPlanetary Gearbox Assembly
Next
NEO Vortex
Last updated
6 months ago
Was this helpful?