REV ION Build System
REV ION Build System Overview
FRC Robot Basics Guide
System Standards
Structure
Introduction to Structure
Brackets
MAXSpline Brackets
Structure Brackets
Actuator Brackets
MAX Pattern Plates
Hardware
Extrusion
Bumper Brackets
MAXComposite
Motion
Introduction to Motion
Shafts / Spacers / Collars
MAXHubs
Tubes / Bushings / Axles
Bearings / Bearing Blocks
Pivot Joints
Linear Actuators
Gears
Advanced Gears
Addendum Shifting in Gears
Sprockets and Chain
Advanced Sprockets and Chain
Chain Tool
Belts and Pulleys
Ratio Plates
NEO Brushless Motors
Servos
Smart Robot Servo
Wheels
Traction
Grip
Omni
Compliant
Flap
Gearboxes
2 Motor Gearbox - Through Bore
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox - Through Bore
MAXPlanetary System
System Features
Mounting Features
Load Ratings
Assembly Tips and Tricks
MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Build Guide
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Onshape
MAXSwerve Calibration
Wiring MAXSwerve
Programming MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Module Inspection
MAXSwerve Spiky Wheel
Aluminum MAXSwerve Wheels
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Evaluation
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Tread Reinforcement
MAXSwerve Tips and Tricks
Onshape Examples
Onshape CAD Examples
Low Complexity
Medium Complexity
High Complexity
Building Techniques
Supporting Motion
Constraining Motion
Build Guides
MAXSwerve Module Assembly
Motor Orientation
MAXSwerve SPARK MAX Mounting Bracket Assembly
MAXSwerve Pack Contents
MAXSwerve Assembly Tips
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Assembly
Elevator Bearing Block Assembly
MAXPlanetary Gearbox Assembly
NEO & CIM
NEO Vortex
NEO 550 & 550 Sized Motors
775 Sized Motors
Falcon
Shaft Retention Assembly
Spacer Installation
MAX 90 Degree Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Gearbox Assembly
Linear Actuator Assembly
MAX 180 Degree Gearbox Assembly
Drivetrain Bumper Kit Assembly
West Coast Drivetrain with MAXTube
AM14U5 (FRC Kit of Parts Chassis)
REV ION West Coast Drivetrain Assembly
REV ION Control System
REV Hardware Client
Power Distribution Hub
Radio Power Module
Mini Power Module
Brushless Motors and Controllers
Pneumatics
Sensors & Indicators
Powered by GitBook
On this page
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox Through Bore
2 Motor Gearbox - Through Bore
MAXPlanetary System
UltraPlanetary System (NEO 550)
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
Gearboxes are a very common way to transform motion in FIRST Robotics Competition. They are generally compact and modular, able to be mounted on your robot wherever they’re needed. Some have fixed gear ratios, and some can be easily changed for the needed application.
A popular style of gearbox is the adjustable, modular, planetary gearbox. In this kind of planetary gearbox, cartridges of different gear ratios are stacked to create an overall reduction. This is a fantastic option for teams to prototype with because they can quickly change the gear ratio without needing to redesign the entire mechanism.
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox Through Bore
The 2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox Through Bore (
REV-21-2190
) is compatible with the REV ION System and can be mounted in a variety of ways, including flush with tube or spaced to enable both chain in tube and chain/belt outside tube designs. Standard pre-formed mounts for a Through Bore Encoder
(REV-11-1271)
ensure the gearbox is on the same horizontal plane to help keep alignment frustrations to a minimum.
2 Motor Gearbox - Through Bore
The 2 Motor Gearbox (
REV-21-2099
) Through Bore is compatible with the REV ION System. This two motor into one output gearbox allows the user to adjust the gear ratio by changing pinion and cluster gear (12:60, 18:54, 24:48, or 36:36). The output shaft is 1/2in Hex through bore, and output gears have a MAXSpline for compatibility.
MAXPlanetary System
The NEO Motor matches the design flexibility of other REV ION products with our optional MAXPlanetary Gearbox (
REV-21-2100
) The MAXPlanetary is primarily intended to be used with the NEO, NEO 550, Falcon 500, and 775 motors. For those utilizing a swerve drive in their build, the NEO Motor is also available with a straight shaft i.e. no gearbox.
To learn more about the MAXPlanetary system check out the
MAXPlanetary Overview Section
as well as the video below
UltraPlanetary System (NEO 550)
The NEO 550 Motor
(REV-21-1651)
matches the design flexibility of other REV ION products with our optional UltraPlanetary Gearbox (
REV-41-1600
). This UltraPlanetary System is a cartridge-based modular gearbox designed to handle the rigors of the competition and the classroom. Building on the ability to iterate and adjust designs easily using the REV Building System, the UltraPlanetary System consists of pre-assembled and lubricated cartridges allowing for swapping gear ratios on the fly and with ease.
To learn more about the UltraPlanetary System check out the
UltraPlanetary Overview
section as well as the video above
Previous
Flap
Next
2 Motor Gearbox - Through Bore
Last updated
9 months ago
Was this helpful?