REV ION Build System
REV ION Build System Overview
FRC Robot Basics Guide
System Standards
Structure
Introduction to Structure
Brackets
MAXSpline Brackets
Structure Brackets
Actuator Brackets
MAX Pattern Plates
Hardware
Extrusion
Bumper Brackets
MAXComposite
Motion
Introduction to Motion
Shafts / Spacers / Collars
MAXHubs
Tubes / Bushings / Axles
Bearings / Bearing Blocks
Pivot Joints
Linear Actuators
Gears
Advanced Gears
Addendum Shifting in Gears
Sprockets and Chain
Advanced Sprockets and Chain
Chain Tool
Belts and Pulleys
Ratio Plates
NEO Brushless Motors
Servos
Smart Robot Servo
Wheels
Traction
Grip
Omni
Compliant
Flap
Gearboxes
2 Motor Gearbox - Through Bore
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox - Through Bore
MAXPlanetary System
System Features
Mounting Features
Load Ratings
Assembly Tips and Tricks
MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Build Guide
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Onshape
MAXSwerve Calibration
Wiring MAXSwerve
Programming MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Module Inspection
MAXSwerve Spiky Wheel
Aluminum MAXSwerve Wheels
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Evaluation
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Tread Reinforcement
MAXSwerve Tips and Tricks
Onshape Examples
Onshape CAD Examples
Low Complexity
Medium Complexity
High Complexity
Building Techniques
Supporting Motion
Constraining Motion
Build Guides
MAXSwerve Module Assembly
Motor Orientation
MAXSwerve SPARK MAX Mounting Bracket Assembly
MAXSwerve Pack Contents
MAXSwerve Assembly Tips
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Assembly
Elevator Bearing Block Assembly
MAXPlanetary Gearbox Assembly
NEO & CIM
NEO Vortex
NEO 550 & 550 Sized Motors
775 Sized Motors
Falcon
Shaft Retention Assembly
Spacer Installation
MAX 90 Degree Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Gearbox Assembly
Linear Actuator Assembly
MAX 180 Degree Gearbox Assembly
Drivetrain Bumper Kit Assembly
West Coast Drivetrain with MAXTube
AM14U5 (FRC Kit of Parts Chassis)
REV ION West Coast Drivetrain Assembly
REV ION Control System
REV Hardware Client
Power Distribution Hub
Radio Power Module
Mini Power Module
Brushless Motors and Controllers
Pneumatics
Sensors & Indicators
Powered by GitBook
On this page
2 Motor Gearbox -  Through Bore Assembly Instructions
Greasing Guide
NEO Vortex vs. NEO Brushless Motor
Base Subassembly
Motor Shaft Subassembly (Gear Ratios 1:1, 2:1, or 3:1)
Motor Shaft Subassembly (Gear Ratios 5:1 and 6:1)
Outer Plate Assembly
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
2 Motor Gearbox -  Through Bore Assembly Instructions
Greasing Guide
When assembling the 2 Motor Gearbox, we recommend adding grease to the gears during assembly and re-applying as needed for the maintenance of your mechanism. For most applications, using
White Lithium Grease
or
Red Tacky Grease
will provide sufficient lubrication.
When applying the grease of your choice, add a small amount to the gearbox’s gears, ensuring that it gets evenly distributed throughout the system.
NEO Vortex vs. NEO Brushless Motor
The instructions below show the assembly of the 2 Motor Gearbox with two NEO Brushless Motors. The 2 Motor Gearbox can be assembled with two NEO Vortex with 8mm Vortex Shafts, following the same instructions.
Base Subassembly
1) Install one of the Flanged Bearings into the Motor Plate.
2) Insert the two motors into the back side of the Motor Plate, and fasten them into place using two 1/2in long 10-32 button head screws per motor.
3) Insert the end of the Through Bore Shaft into the bearing. The shoulder of the shaft should be fully seated against the face of the bearing.
4) Slide one of the 1/8in long MAXSpline spacers onto the through bore shaft.
5) Slide the appropriate MAXSpline Gear for your selected ratio onto the through bore shaft.

The appropriate gears to be used for your ratio can be found here:
Ratio Gear Bundle Contents
6) Slide one 1/8in long and one 1/4in long MAXSpline spacer onto the through bore shaft. 

Ensure that the stack of spacers and the gear are pressed firmly together and that the end of the last spacer is flush with the shoulder at the end of the through bore shaft.
7) Install the motor shaft key into each of the motors.
If you are utilizing Gear Ratio 5:1 or 6:1, See the following:
Motor Shaft Subassembly (Gear Ratios 5:1 or 6:1)
Motor Shaft Subassembly (Gear Ratios 1:1, 2:1, or 3:1)
1) Install the 1/2in Hex Adapter onto each of the motor shafts.
2) Slide one 1/16in long and one 1/4in long 1/2in Hex Shaft Spacers onto each of the Hex Adapters.
3) Slide the appropriate 1/2in Hex Bore Gear for the selected ratio onto each of the Hex Adapters. Ensure that the gears are properly meshed with the center gear.
4) Slide an 8mm Shaft Spacer onto the end of each of the motor shafts.
5) Install an external retaining ring on the end of each motor shaft to hold the shaft stack-up into place.
Motor Shaft Subassembly (Gear Ratios 5:1 and 6:1)
1) Slide an 8mm Shaft Spacer onto each of the motor shafts.
2) Install the appropriate motor pinion for the selected ratio on each motor shaft. Ensure that the pinions are properly meshed with the center gear.
3) Install an external retaining ring on each motor shaft to hold the pinion in place.
Outer Plate Assembly
1) Install the remaining Flanged Bearing in the Outer Plate. The flange of the bearing should be on the opposite side of the plate from the screw head cutouts on the corners of the plate.
2) Place the Outer Plate and bearing onto the through bore shaft with the bearing flange facing inwards.
3) Slide the four 1-1/8in long #10 spacers in between the Outer Plate and Motor Plate, and line them up with the four corner holes in the Outer Plate.
4) Insert the four 1-1/2in long 10-32 button head screws through the Outer Plate, through the #10 spacers, and into the threaded holes in the Motor Plate. Leave the screws slightly loose.
5) Rotate the gearbox shaft a few times and then tighten the screws. Test spin the gearbox to ensure that it rotates freely.
Previous
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox Assembly
Next
Linear Actuator Assembly
Last updated
7 months ago
Was this helpful?