REV ION Control System
REV ION Control System Overview
Quick Links
Frequently Asked Questions
Power Distribution Hub
Power Distribution Hub Overview
Power Distribution Hub Specifications
Getting Started with the Power Distribution Hub
Wiring the Power Distribution Hub
Power Distribution Hub Status LED Patterns
Power Distribution Hub Troubleshooting
Power Distribution Hub Firmware Changelog
Pneumatic Hub
Pneumatic Hub Overview
Pneumatic Hub Specifications
Getting Started with the Pneumatic Hub
Wiring the Pneumatic Hub
Pneumatic Hub Status LED Patterns
Pneumatic Hub Troubleshooting
Pneumatic Hub Firmware Changelog
Radio Power Module
Radio Power Module Overview
Radio Power Module Specifications
Getting Started with the Radio Power Module
RPM Compatibility with the new FRC Radio
Mini Power Module
Mini Power Module Overview
Mini Power Module Specifications
Mini Power Module Status LED Patterns
Sensors
2m Distance Sensor
Color Sensor V3
Magnetic Limit Switch
Potentiometer
Through Bore Encoder
Touch Sensor
Accessories
Blinkin LED Driver
Digital LED Indicator
Servo Power Module
POE Injector Cable
JST PH 6-Pin Breakout Board
JST PH 6-pin Joiner Board
Software Resources
REV Hardware Client Documentation
REVLib
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
Welcome to your new Power Distribution Hub from REV Robotics! This documentation is intended to answer any questions related to the Power Distribution Hub (PDH) used in the
FIRST
Robotics Competition. If there is a question that is not answered by this space, send our support team an email at
[email protected]
. We are happy to help point you in the right direction!
Have a specific question?
Feel free to head straight to it using the navigation bar to the left. Each section is grouped with other similar topics.
Have trouble finding what you are looking for?
Try the search bar in the upper right!
We recommend reading through this guide in its entirety at least once to fully understand all of the features of your Power Distribution Hub.
Before You Start
Install the
REV Hardware Client
before continuing with this guide. The REV Hardware Client is the best way to verify that the Power Distribution Hub is configured correctly and is
required
for using the CAN Interface.
RS485 Ports are not currently used in FRC and are included for potential future use
Previous
Power Distribution Hub Specifications
Next
Wiring the Power Distribution Hub
Last updated
1 year ago
Was this helpful?