REV ION Build System
REV ION Build System Overview
FRC Robot Basics Guide
System Standards
Structure
Introduction to Structure
Brackets
MAXSpline Brackets
Structure Brackets
Actuator Brackets
MAX Pattern Plates
Hardware
Extrusion
Bumper Brackets
MAXComposite
Motion
Introduction to Motion
Shafts / Spacers / Collars
MAXHubs
Tubes / Bushings / Axles
Bearings / Bearing Blocks
Pivot Joints
Linear Actuators
Gears
Advanced Gears
Addendum Shifting in Gears
Sprockets and Chain
Advanced Sprockets and Chain
Chain Tool
Belts and Pulleys
Ratio Plates
NEO Brushless Motors
Servos
Smart Robot Servo
Wheels
Traction
Grip
Omni
Compliant
Flap
Gearboxes
2 Motor Gearbox - Through Bore
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox - Through Bore
MAXPlanetary System
System Features
Mounting Features
Load Ratings
Assembly Tips and Tricks
MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Build Guide
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Onshape
MAXSwerve Calibration
Wiring MAXSwerve
Programming MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Module Inspection
MAXSwerve Spiky Wheel
Aluminum MAXSwerve Wheels
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Evaluation
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Tread Reinforcement
MAXSwerve Tips and Tricks
Onshape Examples
Onshape CAD Examples
Low Complexity
Medium Complexity
High Complexity
Building Techniques
Supporting Motion
Constraining Motion
Build Guides
MAXSwerve Module Assembly
Motor Orientation
MAXSwerve SPARK MAX Mounting Bracket Assembly
MAXSwerve Pack Contents
MAXSwerve Assembly Tips
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Assembly
Elevator Bearing Block Assembly
MAXPlanetary Gearbox Assembly
NEO & CIM
NEO Vortex
NEO 550 & 550 Sized Motors
775 Sized Motors
Falcon
Shaft Retention Assembly
Spacer Installation
MAX 90 Degree Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Gearbox Assembly
Linear Actuator Assembly
MAX 180 Degree Gearbox Assembly
Drivetrain Bumper Kit Assembly
West Coast Drivetrain with MAXTube
AM14U5 (FRC Kit of Parts Chassis)
REV ION West Coast Drivetrain Assembly
REV ION Control System
REV Hardware Client
Power Distribution Hub
Radio Power Module
Mini Power Module
Brushless Motors and Controllers
Pneumatics
Sensors & Indicators
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Recommended Tread
MAXSwerve Tread Template
Template PDF
Preparing Tread
Putting Tread on Wheel
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
The
3in MAXSwerve Aluminum Wheel (REV-21-3002)
was designed for the
3in MAXSwerve Module (REV-21-3005)
. You can attach your favorite tread material to this wheel, allowing it to be reused throughout the season.
Recommended Tread
McMaster-Carr Black Neoprene 3-Ply Tread
McMaster-Carr Blue Nitrile Tread
MAXSwerve Tread Template
During the 2023 FRC season, we designed a template to prepare replacement strips of treads for the
3in MAXSwerve Aluminum Wheel
used on the
3in MAXSwerve Module
.
Our template has been crafted to ensure a tight fit of the treads onto the 3in diameter x 7/8in wide billet wheel. Once you have found your perfect tread, the template can be scaled to various sizes to produce treads with the correct hole spacing for various recommended treads. With this jig, the tread installation process is seamless, resulting in a tight and secure fit every time.
Drill bushings
can be pressed into the fixture to ensure that the jig will remain usable for an extended period of time. However, users should note that they will need to grind a flat into the bushings, as the screw placement is narrowly spaced.
Template PDF
Printable Tread Pattern - Cut Template PDF
Keep in mind that this template may need to be scaled/adjusted based on your team's choice of tread. We have found that a
103%
scaling of the PDF works for the type of tread suggested earlier. 

Be sure to double check your dimensions are correct for your scale and choice of tread!
Preparing Tread
1) Mark the tread to the length of the scaled tread template, and cut the tread to the correct length.

We recommend using a Bandsaw for this process but you can use other cutting tools, like tinsnips too.
2) Mark the tread with holes for mounting and with lines to create the proper width of the tread. Use a bandsaw or tinsnips to cut the tread to the proper width of the wheel.
3) Drill or punch through the mounting holes using a 5mm/#9 drill bit. 

After creating the holes, "countersink" the tread by using flush cutters on both sides of the tread, especially if the holes are drilled.
Punched holes may not need to be countersunk, as there may not be residual tread left by the punch process.
Once you know the correct size of tread that is necessary for your team's specific use application, it can be helpful to pre-cut large quantities of tread at once.
Putting Tread on Wheel
1) Pre-load screws into the tread. Be sure that the screw has a few threads showing through the tread, but don’t thread it all the way through yet.
Screws should be #10-32 Button Head Screws, but the length will depend on which tread is being used, as tread height varies by brand.
For the recommended treads we are using the following:
1/2in #10-32 Button Head Hex Drive Screws (REV-29-2943-PK50)
2) Attach the screws to the wheel. Ensure that you are properly threading the screw into the hole, as the tread can cause the screw to be pulled out of alignment.
If this step is proving difficult, it may help to rotate the screw backward to align the threads prior to tightening it fully.
3) Wrap the tread tightly around the wheel, and attach the two remaining screws to the wheel and tread, taking care not to cross-thread them.
You may need to wiggle, stretch, or rotate the screw within the tread for the screw to align the threads.
Marking the path of the threaded hole, as seen to the right, can also make attaching the screws easier.
Previous
MAXSwerve Spiky Wheel
Next
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Evaluation
Last updated
1 month ago
Was this helpful?