REV ION Build System
REV ION Build System Overview
FRC Robot Basics Guide
System Standards
Structure
Introduction to Structure
Brackets
MAXSpline Brackets
Structure Brackets
Actuator Brackets
MAX Pattern Plates
Hardware
Extrusion
Bumper Brackets
MAXComposite
Motion
Introduction to Motion
Shafts / Spacers / Collars
MAXHubs
Tubes / Bushings / Axles
Bearings / Bearing Blocks
Pivot Joints
Linear Actuators
Gears
Advanced Gears
Addendum Shifting in Gears
Sprockets and Chain
Advanced Sprockets and Chain
Chain Tool
Belts and Pulleys
Ratio Plates
NEO Brushless Motors
Servos
Smart Robot Servo
Wheels
Traction
Grip
Omni
Compliant
Flap
Gearboxes
2 Motor Gearbox - Through Bore
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox - Through Bore
MAXPlanetary System
System Features
Mounting Features
Load Ratings
Assembly Tips and Tricks
MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Build Guide
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Onshape
MAXSwerve Calibration
Wiring MAXSwerve
Programming MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Module Inspection
MAXSwerve Spiky Wheel
Aluminum MAXSwerve Wheels
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Evaluation
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Tread Reinforcement
MAXSwerve Tips and Tricks
Onshape Examples
Onshape CAD Examples
Low Complexity
Medium Complexity
High Complexity
Building Techniques
Supporting Motion
Constraining Motion
Build Guides
MAXSwerve Module Assembly
Motor Orientation
MAXSwerve SPARK MAX Mounting Bracket Assembly
MAXSwerve Pack Contents
MAXSwerve Assembly Tips
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Assembly
Elevator Bearing Block Assembly
MAXPlanetary Gearbox Assembly
NEO & CIM
NEO Vortex
NEO 550 & 550 Sized Motors
775 Sized Motors
Falcon
Shaft Retention Assembly
Spacer Installation
MAX 90 Degree Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Gearbox Assembly
Linear Actuator Assembly
MAX 180 Degree Gearbox Assembly
Drivetrain Bumper Kit Assembly
West Coast Drivetrain with MAXTube
AM14U5 (FRC Kit of Parts Chassis)
REV ION West Coast Drivetrain Assembly
REV ION Control System
REV Hardware Client
Power Distribution Hub
Radio Power Module
Mini Power Module
Brushless Motors and Controllers
Pneumatics
Sensors & Indicators
Powered by GitBook
On this page
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 - Plastic Evaluation
Green Wheels
Yellow Wheels
Red Wheels
Quick Reference
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Evaluation Details
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
MAXSwerve Wheel V2 should be replaced when the tread disappears. We advise replacing wheels at 1/2 inch depth loss for proactive repairs.
The following images will describe a rating system we have developed for determining if a MAXSwerve Wheel should still be used on your robot.
This rating system was developed from our internal testing and feedback from teams who had contacted us about their MAXSwerve Wheel failures. Please make sure that you take your team's robot design and driving style into consideration.
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 - Plastic Evaluation
Green Wheels
Okay to keep using this wheel because it is still in good shape. There is minor wear or damage to the tread but no signs of too much axial force or scrub.
Yellow Wheels
The affected wheel should be monitored closely because it is showing signs of wear that could lead to delamination of the tread. Please be sure to check the wheel again after your next match!
Red Wheels
Red Wheels need to be replaced right away and before the next match if possible. Delamination is very likely to occur with continued use beyond this state.
Quick Reference
Axial vs. Radial
In this section, we will describe different features of the MAXSwerve Wheel and wear patterns as Axial or Radial. Here are some descriptions of what these terms mean on a MAXSwerve Wheel.
Radial
- Describes features that occur radiating from the center of the wheel towards the tread
Axial
- Describes features that occur side to side along the wheel’s axle
Visual Representation of Radial
Visual representation of Axial
Please see the table below for examples of wheels that demonstrate the criteria for each rating.
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Evaluation Details
New
Green
Yellow
Red
Brand New Wheels
Brand new MAXSwerve wheels can also be classified as Green and will not have any peeling or separation of the tread from the hard plastic core of the wheel.
Green Wheels
Green wheels show early signs of wear that will eventually lead to the tread delaminating from the core of the wheel. When evaluating green wheels it is important to note that tread depth is something to be aware of, but it will not affect the rating of the wheel.
Green wheels have little to no radial separation (or peeling) of the tread. Also, the tread is still resilient enough to spring back quickly if it is stretched along the separation.
Small cuts or gouges in the wheels do not disqualify it from being rated as green. You will also see no axial separation on green wheels.
Sometimes looking at your wheel from the top down along the tread can help you identify radial separation easily. Green wheels will have straight borders since they have not had any axial separation yet.
Yellow Wheels
Yellow wheels show moderate signs of wear that will eventually lead to the tread delaminating from the core of the wheel. When evaluating yellow wheels it is important to note that tread depth is something to be aware of, but it will not affect the rating of the wheel. Even if a MAXSwerve Wheel has near-perfect tread grooves, if there is any axial separation from the core it should be classified as yellow.
Yellow wheels have some radial separation of the tread from the core as well as clear axial separation. The tread may be able to spring back still when moved, but it will remain separated from the core.
Axial Separation on a yellow wheel is noticeable but does not interfere with the forks of your module or create excess friction in your drivetrain.
When looking at the wheel from a top-down view, you can sometimes see axial separation on a yellow wheel along the edges. Also within the axial separation, you will not be able to see the core's support posts.
Red Wheels
Red wheels show serious signs of wear that will
soon
lead to the tread delaminating from the core of the wheel. When evaluating red wheels it is important to note that tread depth is something to be aware of, but it will not affect the rating of the wheel. Even if a MAXSwerve Wheel has near-perfect tread grooves, if there is a large amount axial separation from the core it should be classified as red.
Red wheels have major radial separation of the tread from the core as well as clear major axial separation. The tread may not be able to spring back when moved but regardless of how the tread behaves your team should replace this wheel.
Large gaps of both radial and axial separation on a red wheel may interfere with the forks of your module or create excess friction in your drivetrain as the tread expands.
When looking at the wheel from a top-down view, you will likely be able to see axial separation of the tread from the core of a red wheel. Within the axial separation, you will also be able to see at least one core support post (shown below)
Previous
Aluminum MAXSwerve Wheels
Next
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Tread Reinforcement
Last updated
1 year ago
Was this helpful?