REV ION Build System
REV ION Build System Overview
FRC Robot Basics Guide
System Standards
Structure
Introduction to Structure
Brackets
MAXSpline Brackets
Structure Brackets
Actuator Brackets
MAX Pattern Plates
Hardware
Extrusion
Bumper Brackets
MAXComposite
Motion
Introduction to Motion
Shafts / Spacers / Collars
MAXHubs
Tubes / Bushings / Axles
Bearings / Bearing Blocks
Pivot Joints
Linear Actuators
Gears
Advanced Gears
Addendum Shifting in Gears
Sprockets and Chain
Advanced Sprockets and Chain
Chain Tool
Belts and Pulleys
Ratio Plates
NEO Brushless Motors
Servos
Smart Robot Servo
Wheels
Traction
Grip
Omni
Compliant
Flap
Gearboxes
2 Motor Gearbox - Through Bore
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox - Through Bore
MAXPlanetary System
System Features
Mounting Features
Load Ratings
Assembly Tips and Tricks
MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Build Guide
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Onshape
MAXSwerve Calibration
Wiring MAXSwerve
Programming MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Module Inspection
MAXSwerve Spiky Wheel
Aluminum MAXSwerve Wheels
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Evaluation
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Tread Reinforcement
MAXSwerve Tips and Tricks
Onshape Examples
Onshape CAD Examples
Low Complexity
Medium Complexity
High Complexity
Building Techniques
Supporting Motion
Constraining Motion
Build Guides
MAXSwerve Module Assembly
Motor Orientation
MAXSwerve SPARK MAX Mounting Bracket Assembly
MAXSwerve Pack Contents
MAXSwerve Assembly Tips
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Assembly
Elevator Bearing Block Assembly
MAXPlanetary Gearbox Assembly
NEO & CIM
NEO Vortex
NEO 550 & 550 Sized Motors
775 Sized Motors
Falcon
Shaft Retention Assembly
Spacer Installation
MAX 90 Degree Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Gearbox Assembly
Linear Actuator Assembly
MAX 180 Degree Gearbox Assembly
Drivetrain Bumper Kit Assembly
West Coast Drivetrain with MAXTube
AM14U5 (FRC Kit of Parts Chassis)
REV ION West Coast Drivetrain Assembly
REV ION Control System
REV Hardware Client
Power Distribution Hub
Radio Power Module
Mini Power Module
Brushless Motors and Controllers
Pneumatics
Sensors & Indicators
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
Supporting the mechanisms that move on the robot is very important. Without planning proper supports, shafts may not be able to spin and your mechanisms or actuators could be damaged.
How to Support Motion
Forces, or "loads", that are at a right angle, or "normal" to the shaft, are the most important forces to counteract. The floor pushing on a wheel or two gears pushing against each other are two examples of normal forces.
A shaft should be supported with two points of contact. Without two support points, the shaft can pivot in the direction of the force. Ideally, those two points of contact should "capture" the mechanism under load. In other words, the support points are on either side of the mechanism. If a mechanism can't be captured, it is important to keep the load as close to the two support points as possible.
Below are some examples of three major supported load configurations: Captured, Near, and Far
Additionally, the further apart the two support points are from each other, the better it can resist effects of a normal force. As the supports move closer together, they begin to act more like a single support. Supporting a shaft is important, but adding more than two support points can have diminishing returns. Each bearing that the shaft passes through adds a constraint to that shaft. You need to balance having the appropriate amount of constraints to keep the shaft from moving due to normal forces, but not too many that the shaft becomes “overconstrained.” Overconstrained mechanisms can bind and make rotation difficult, causing stress on the actuators and even damaging components of your robot.
The diagram below gives an overview of how bearing quantity and arrangement can impact the stability of load configuration.
Previous
High Complexity
Next
Constraining Motion
Last updated
2 months ago
Was this helpful?