REV ION Build System
REV ION Build System Overview
FRC Robot Basics Guide
System Standards
Structure
Introduction to Structure
Brackets
MAXSpline Brackets
Structure Brackets
Actuator Brackets
MAX Pattern Plates
Hardware
Extrusion
Bumper Brackets
MAXComposite
Motion
Introduction to Motion
Shafts / Spacers / Collars
MAXHubs
Tubes / Bushings / Axles
Bearings / Bearing Blocks
Pivot Joints
Linear Actuators
Gears
Advanced Gears
Addendum Shifting in Gears
Sprockets and Chain
Advanced Sprockets and Chain
Chain Tool
Belts and Pulleys
Ratio Plates
NEO Brushless Motors
Servos
Smart Robot Servo
Wheels
Traction
Grip
Omni
Compliant
Flap
Gearboxes
2 Motor Gearbox - Through Bore
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox - Through Bore
MAXPlanetary System
System Features
Mounting Features
Load Ratings
Assembly Tips and Tricks
MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Build Guide
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Onshape
MAXSwerve Calibration
Wiring MAXSwerve
Programming MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Module Inspection
MAXSwerve Spiky Wheel
Aluminum MAXSwerve Wheels
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Evaluation
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Tread Reinforcement
MAXSwerve Tips and Tricks
Onshape Examples
Onshape CAD Examples
Low Complexity
Medium Complexity
High Complexity
Building Techniques
Supporting Motion
Constraining Motion
Build Guides
MAXSwerve Module Assembly
Motor Orientation
MAXSwerve SPARK MAX Mounting Bracket Assembly
MAXSwerve Pack Contents
MAXSwerve Assembly Tips
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Assembly
Elevator Bearing Block Assembly
MAXPlanetary Gearbox Assembly
NEO & CIM
NEO Vortex
NEO 550 & 550 Sized Motors
775 Sized Motors
Falcon
Shaft Retention Assembly
Spacer Installation
MAX 90 Degree Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Gearbox Assembly
Linear Actuator Assembly
MAX 180 Degree Gearbox Assembly
Drivetrain Bumper Kit Assembly
West Coast Drivetrain with MAXTube
AM14U5 (FRC Kit of Parts Chassis)
REV ION West Coast Drivetrain Assembly
REV ION Control System
REV Hardware Client
Power Distribution Hub
Radio Power Module
Mini Power Module
Brushless Motors and Controllers
Pneumatics
Sensors & Indicators
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Applying Loctite to your MAXSwerve Module
Forgot to Apply Loctite to the UltraPlanetary Gearbox
Applying Grease to your MAXSwerve Module
MAXSwerve Gears to Consider
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
Applying Loctite to your MAXSwerve Module
Ensuring your screws are secure is crucial when assembling your MAXSwerve Modules. Neglecting proper Loctite applications may result in potential damage to your drivetrain. Here is a video with some best practices to keep in mind while applying Loctite or a similar thread locker to your screws.
Our engineering team generally recommends using
Loctite Threadlocker Blue 242
. Try to avoid Red and Green.
Forgot to Apply Loctite to the UltraPlanetary Gearbox
If you forgot to apply Loctite during the assembly of the UltraPlanetary Subassembly, you can use a
Wicking Grade Loctite
to apply thread locker to the pre-assembled gearbox.
To use, apply the Wicking Loctite to the top of the UltraPlanetary Gearbox assembly where the screw tips are showing. The Loctite will wick between the engaged threads using capillary action to secure your screws.
Applying Grease to your MAXSwerve Module
We recommend applying grease to your MAXSwerve Modules during assembly and reapplying as needed to maintain your drivetrain. This lubrication helps the hardware that experiences high friction last longer and maintain performance.
In the event your team feels the need to apply lubricant to the MAXSwerve Hardware during assembly, we recommend
Lucas LUC10533 White Lithium Grease
or
Lucas Oil Red "N" Tacky #2 Grease
.
For situations requiring quick lubrication after assembly, use
WD-40 Specialist White Lithium Grease Spray
.
When you apply grease, put on a pair of nitrile gloves. You can either squeeze the grease onto your gloved finger or directly onto the gear teeth. Work the grease in, making sure it's evenly distributed throughout the system. Wipe away any excess to avoid making a mess.
It is not necessary to grease the UltraPlanetary Gearbox Cartridges as they are pre-lubricated.
MAXSwerve Gears to Consider
Since the motor pinion is difficult to access after assembly, we recommend applying a full pinky finger's worth of grease to your choice of speed pinion. 

You can use a Q-Tip to cover the crests and roots of the gear.
Your Steering Gear directly interacts with the Steering Pinion, so it's a good idea to keep this component moderately greased.

Simply put on some gloves and work the grease into the gear teeth; a little goes a long way.
Similar situation as before, the Wheel Bevel Gear directly interacts with the Bevel Pinion, so there's high friction going on. 

Squeeze a healthy bead trail along the teeth and work it in good.
The Drive Spur Gear interacts directly with the Speed Pinion; these are two parts you want a healthy coat of lubricant on.
When orienting the MAXSwerve Module in this position, you have access to the Wheel Bevel Gear, Steering Gear, and Drive Spur Gears.

Perfect for a quick application with the WD-40 Specialist White Lithium Grease Spray.
Previous
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Tread Reinforcement
Next
Onshape CAD Examples
Last updated
11 days ago
Was this helpful?