REV ION Build System
REV ION Build System Overview
FRC Robot Basics Guide
System Standards
Structure
Introduction to Structure
Brackets
MAXSpline Brackets
Structure Brackets
Actuator Brackets
MAX Pattern Plates
Hardware
Extrusion
Bumper Brackets
MAXComposite
Motion
Introduction to Motion
Shafts / Spacers / Collars
MAXHubs
Tubes / Bushings / Axles
Bearings / Bearing Blocks
Pivot Joints
Linear Actuators
Gears
Advanced Gears
Addendum Shifting in Gears
Sprockets and Chain
Advanced Sprockets and Chain
Chain Tool
Belts and Pulleys
Ratio Plates
NEO Brushless Motors
Servos
Smart Robot Servo
Wheels
Traction
Grip
Omni
Compliant
Flap
Gearboxes
2 Motor Gearbox - Through Bore
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox - Through Bore
MAXPlanetary System
System Features
Mounting Features
Load Ratings
Assembly Tips and Tricks
MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Build Guide
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Onshape
MAXSwerve Calibration
Wiring MAXSwerve
Programming MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Module Inspection
MAXSwerve Spiky Wheel
Aluminum MAXSwerve Wheels
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Evaluation
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Tread Reinforcement
MAXSwerve Tips and Tricks
Onshape Examples
Onshape CAD Examples
Low Complexity
Medium Complexity
High Complexity
Building Techniques
Supporting Motion
Constraining Motion
Build Guides
MAXSwerve Module Assembly
Motor Orientation
MAXSwerve SPARK MAX Mounting Bracket Assembly
MAXSwerve Pack Contents
MAXSwerve Assembly Tips
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Assembly
Elevator Bearing Block Assembly
MAXPlanetary Gearbox Assembly
NEO & CIM
NEO Vortex
NEO 550 & 550 Sized Motors
775 Sized Motors
Falcon
Shaft Retention Assembly
Spacer Installation
MAX 90 Degree Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Gearbox Assembly
Linear Actuator Assembly
MAX 180 Degree Gearbox Assembly
Drivetrain Bumper Kit Assembly
West Coast Drivetrain with MAXTube
AM14U5 (FRC Kit of Parts Chassis)
REV ION West Coast Drivetrain Assembly
REV ION Control System
REV Hardware Client
Power Distribution Hub
Radio Power Module
Mini Power Module
Brushless Motors and Controllers
Pneumatics
Sensors & Indicators
Powered by GitBook
On this page
MAXPlanetary System Overview
MAX 90 Degree Gearbox
Cartridge Features
Input Features
Output Features
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
Looking for the UltraPlanetary Gearbox System (
REV-41-1600
)? Check out the
UltraPlanetary Gearbox System Overview
in our Crossover Documentation.
MAXPlanetary System Overview
The MAXPlanetary System (
REV-21-2100
) is a cartridge-based modular planetary gearbox designed from the ground up for NEO-class motors. The design of the MAXPlanetary has been carefully optimized to provide torque density unavailable in FRC up until now.
The MAXPlanetary is intended for use with the NEO, NEO 550, Falcon 500, and 775 motors. Building on the ability to iterate and adjust designs easily, the MAXPlanetary System consists of lubricated cartridges allowing for swapping gear ratios on the fly and with ease. Users can configure a single-stage planetary using one of three different reduction cartridges or build multi-stage gearboxes by stacking individual cartridges together. The user can use the included 1/2in hex shaft or use a custom length of hex shaft best suited for the application. The gearbox also provides two mounting options, face mount and side mount, for ultimate flexibility in your robot design.
MAXPlanetary Gearbox with 3 cartridges
Looking for the Ultra 90 Degree Gearbox (
REV-41-2080
)? Check out the
Ultra 90 Degree Gearbox Overview
in our Crossover Documentation.
MAX 90 Degree Gearbox
Designed with an efficient right-angle configuration, the MAX 90 Degree Gearbox offers a robust and high-performance solution to building a more compact robot. Connect the MAX 90 Degree Gearbox to the MAXPlanetary System in a 90-degree orientation for maximum flexibility and ease of use in tight spaces. The through bore design of the gearbox allows for easy mounting and integration into a wide range of applications. Its 90-degree output orientation provides a compact and efficient way to transmit power and torque at right-angle configurations.
MAX 90 Degree Gearbox
MAX 90 Degree Gearbox Features
The REV Robotics MAXPlanetary Gearbox includes the following features:
Three different, self-contained gear ratio cartridges providing twenty-seven gear ratios ranging from 3:1 to 125:1
High torque density
Easy assembly without modifying the motor
A Socket 1/2in Hex Output with the ability to retain a shaft blind
Assembled front to back for ease of changing the gear ratio while the MAXPlanetary Gearbox is mounted on the robot
When assembling the MAX 90 Degree Gearbox we recommend adding grease during assembly and re-applying as needed for the maintenance of your mechanism. For most applications, using
White Lithium Grease
or
Red Tacky Grease
will provide sufficient lubrication.
Cartridge Features
A breakdown of the MAXPlanetary Cartridges
Input Spline
- Accepts torque from the previous stage while being easy to insert and remove.
Output Spline
- Provides torque transfer between one stage and the next while being easy to insert and remove.
Assembly Holes
- The screws holding the gearbox together pass through these holes.
Shields
- Keeps the internal components of the gear stage in their place when the stage isn’t assembled into a gearbox.  Also retains grease to keep the gear stage lubricated throughout its service life.
Alignment Tabs
- Alignment features that engage with the alignment notches on the previous stage.  The directional nature of the alignment features prevent the user from assembling any gearbox components backwards.
Alignment Notches
- Provides a socket for the alignment tabs to engage with.  These features keep the rotating components concentric as well as providing angular alignment to keep the flat faces of the gearbox in plane.
Input Features
Side Mounting Holes
- These 10-32 holes allow the gearbox to be mounted on top of structural components without obstructing the front of the gearbox.
Assembly Holes
- The screws holding the gearbox together pass through these holes.
Alignment Notches
- Provides a socket for the alignment tabs on the first gear stage to engage with.  These features keep the rotating components concentric as well as providing angular alignment to keep the flat faces of the gearbox in plane.
NEO Mounting Holes
- These holes are for mounting NEO-class motors to the input block.
550 Mounting Holes
- These holes are for mounting the NEO 550 to the gearbox.
775 Mounting Holes
- These holes are for mounting 775-series motors to the gearbox
775 Vent Holes
- These holes line up with the vent holes on the face of 775-series motors and allow cooling air to pass through the motor.
Output Features
Socket 1/2in Hex Output
- Engages with a 1/2in hex shaft to drive a robot mechanism. The output includes a #10 clearance hole through the middle which allows a shaft to be retained in the output.
Face Mounting Holes
- These 10-32 holes allow the gearbox to be mounted to the face of a bracket or tube in several useful orientations.
Side Mounting Holes
- These 10-32 holes allow the gearbox to be mounted on top of structural components without obstructing the front of the gearbox.
Threaded Assembly Holes
- The screws holding the gearbox together thread into these holes to clamp the gearbox stack together.
Input Spline
- Accepts torque from the last gear stage while being easy to insert and remove.
Alignment Tabs
- Alignment features that engage with the alignment notches on the last stage. The directional nature of the alignment features prevent the user from assembling any gearbox components backwards.
Previous
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox - Through Bore
Next
System Features
Last updated
9 months ago
Was this helpful?