REV ION Control System
REV ION Control System Overview
Quick Links
Frequently Asked Questions
Power Distribution Hub
Power Distribution Hub Overview
Power Distribution Hub Specifications
Getting Started with the Power Distribution Hub
Wiring the Power Distribution Hub
Power Distribution Hub Status LED Patterns
Power Distribution Hub Troubleshooting
Power Distribution Hub Firmware Changelog
Pneumatic Hub
Pneumatic Hub Overview
Pneumatic Hub Specifications
Getting Started with the Pneumatic Hub
Wiring the Pneumatic Hub
Pneumatic Hub Status LED Patterns
Pneumatic Hub Troubleshooting
Pneumatic Hub Firmware Changelog
Radio Power Module
Radio Power Module Overview
Radio Power Module Specifications
Getting Started with the Radio Power Module
RPM Compatibility with the new FRC Radio
Mini Power Module
Mini Power Module Overview
Mini Power Module Specifications
Mini Power Module Status LED Patterns
Sensors
2m Distance Sensor
Color Sensor V3
Magnetic Limit Switch
Potentiometer
Through Bore Encoder
Touch Sensor
Accessories
Blinkin LED Driver
Digital LED Indicator
Servo Power Module
POE Injector Cable
JST PH 6-Pin Breakout Board
JST PH 6-pin Joiner Board
Software Resources
REV Hardware Client Documentation
REVLib
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Wiring Diagram
Specifications
Mechanical Drawing
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
The REV POE Injector Cable was specifically designed to address a common problem for many FRC teams with their wireless radios: intermittent power glitches.
The wireless radios used in the last several FRC seasons can be powered either through a traditional barrel jack or through a Power Over Ethernet (POE) port. Traditional barrel jacks can easily work themselves loose and often require hacks like hot glue to prevent intermittent power glitches. The REV POE Injector Cable eliminates the barrel jack by providing power directly to one of the POE ports on the radio. Two power wires branch off of the male end of the cable and can be connected to an appropriate power source like the Voltage Regulator Module (VRM). These power wires come crimped with ferrules that are compatible with the Weidmuller connectors on the VRM.
POE Injector Cable
Safety Note:
Be sure to plug the male ethernet plug into the radio. Plugging this end into other devices that do not expect 12V POE, such as the roboRIO, can permanently damage them. Also, ensure that the power wires are connected with the proper polarity.
Reverse polarity will permanently damage most radios
.
Wiring Diagram
POE Injector Cable Wiring Diagram
Specifications
Wire Gauge
24 AWG
Ferrules Size
20 AWG
Ethernet Cable Length
30 cm
Power Cable Length
60 cm
Female Socket Mounting Threads
M3
Mechanical Drawing
Previous
Servo Power Module
Next
JST PH 6-Pin Breakout Board
Last updated
8 months ago
Was this helpful?