REV ION Control System
REV ION Control System Overview
Quick Links
Frequently Asked Questions
Power Distribution Hub
Power Distribution Hub Overview
Power Distribution Hub Specifications
Getting Started with the Power Distribution Hub
Wiring the Power Distribution Hub
Power Distribution Hub Status LED Patterns
Power Distribution Hub Troubleshooting
Power Distribution Hub Firmware Changelog
Pneumatic Hub
Pneumatic Hub Overview
Pneumatic Hub Specifications
Getting Started with the Pneumatic Hub
Wiring the Pneumatic Hub
Pneumatic Hub Status LED Patterns
Pneumatic Hub Troubleshooting
Pneumatic Hub Firmware Changelog
Radio Power Module
Radio Power Module Overview
Radio Power Module Specifications
Getting Started with the Radio Power Module
RPM Compatibility with the new FRC Radio
Mini Power Module
Mini Power Module Overview
Mini Power Module Specifications
Mini Power Module Status LED Patterns
Sensors
2m Distance Sensor
Color Sensor V3
Magnetic Limit Switch
Potentiometer
Through Bore Encoder
Touch Sensor
Accessories
Blinkin LED Driver
Digital LED Indicator
Servo Power Module
POE Injector Cable
JST PH 6-Pin Breakout Board
JST PH 6-pin Joiner Board
Software Resources
REV Hardware Client Documentation
REVLib
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Refined Control
Power Management
Power Distribution Hub
Radio Power Module
Mini Power Module
Pneumatics
Pneumatic Hub
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
Refined Control
Expand upon your robot's capabilities with the REV ION Control System. This series of Hubs and Modules provide flexibility for the addition of new peripherals while delivering vital feedback back to the team. Seamlessly integrate a Hub into your CAN Bus alongside the
SPARK MAX
or
SPARK Flex
Motor Controllers.
Power Distribution Hub
Power Management
Power Distribution Hub
The REV Power Distribution Hub (PDH) is the latest evolution in power distribution for the
FIRST
Robotics Competition (FRC). With 20 high-current (40A max) channels, 3 low-current (15A max), and 1 switchable low-current channel, the PDH gives teams more flexibility for overall power delivery. The Power Distribution Hub features toolless latching WAGO terminals, an LED voltage display, and the ability to connect over CAN or USB-C to the REV Hardware Client for real-time telemetry, making it easier than ever to wire and debug your robot.
Radio Power Module
The REV Radio Power Module is designed to keep one of the most critical system components, the OpenMesh OM5P-AC WiFi radio, powered in the toughest moments of the competition. Traditional barrel jacks easily work themselves loose and often require hacks, like hot glue, to prevent intermittent power losses. The Radio Power Module eliminates the need for powering the radio through a traditional barrel power jack. Utilizing 18V Passive Power over Ethernet (PoE) with two socketed RJ45 connectors, the Radio Power Module passes signal between the radio and roboRIO while providing power directly to the radio. After connecting the radio and roboRIO, easily add power to the Radio Power Module by wiring it to the low-current channels on the Power Distribution Hub utilizing the color coded push button WAGO terminals.
Mini Power Module
The REV Mini Power Module (MPM) is a compact power distribution module that allows you to securely and quickly power peripheral devices to your robot. Need more low-current channels on your PDH? Wire the MPM to one of the high-current channels on the PDH to power more peripheral devices and custom circuits.
Pneumatics
Pneumatic Hub
Pneumatic Hub
The REV Pneumatic Hub is a standalone module that is capable of switching both 12V and 24V pneumatic solenoid valves. The Pneumatic Hub features 16 solenoid channels which allow for up to 16 single-acting solenoids, 8 double-acting solenoids, or a combination of the two types. The user-selectable output voltage is fully regulated, allowing even 12V solenoids to stay active when the robot battery drops as low as 4.75V.
Digital and analog pressure sensor ports are built into the device, increasing the flexibility and feedback functionality of the pneumatic system. The USB-C connection on the Hub works with the REV Hardware Client, allowing users to test pneumatic systems without a need for an additional robot controller.
If there is a question that is not answered by this space, send our support team an email;
[email protected]
. We are always happy to help point you in the right direction!
Next
Quick Links
Last updated
1 year ago
Was this helpful?