REV ION Build System
REV ION Build System Overview
FRC Robot Basics Guide
System Standards
Structure
Introduction to Structure
Brackets
MAXSpline Brackets
Structure Brackets
Actuator Brackets
MAX Pattern Plates
Hardware
Extrusion
Bumper Brackets
MAXComposite
Motion
Introduction to Motion
Shafts / Spacers / Collars
MAXHubs
Tubes / Bushings / Axles
Bearings / Bearing Blocks
Pivot Joints
Linear Actuators
Gears
Advanced Gears
Addendum Shifting in Gears
Sprockets and Chain
Advanced Sprockets and Chain
Chain Tool
Belts and Pulleys
Ratio Plates
NEO Brushless Motors
Servos
Smart Robot Servo
Wheels
Traction
Grip
Omni
Compliant
Flap
Gearboxes
2 Motor Gearbox - Through Bore
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox - Through Bore
MAXPlanetary System
System Features
Mounting Features
Load Ratings
Assembly Tips and Tricks
MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Build Guide
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Onshape
MAXSwerve Calibration
Wiring MAXSwerve
Programming MAXSwerve
MAXSwerve Module Inspection
MAXSwerve Spiky Wheel
Aluminum MAXSwerve Wheels
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Evaluation
MAXSwerve Wheel V1 Tread Reinforcement
MAXSwerve Tips and Tricks
Onshape Examples
Onshape CAD Examples
Low Complexity
Medium Complexity
High Complexity
Building Techniques
Supporting Motion
Constraining Motion
Build Guides
MAXSwerve Module Assembly
Motor Orientation
MAXSwerve SPARK MAX Mounting Bracket Assembly
MAXSwerve Pack Contents
MAXSwerve Assembly Tips
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Assembly
Elevator Bearing Block Assembly
MAXPlanetary Gearbox Assembly
NEO & CIM
NEO Vortex
NEO 550 & 550 Sized Motors
775 Sized Motors
Falcon
Shaft Retention Assembly
Spacer Installation
MAX 90 Degree Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Drivetrain Gearbox Assembly
2 Motor Gearbox Assembly
Linear Actuator Assembly
MAX 180 Degree Gearbox Assembly
Drivetrain Bumper Kit Assembly
West Coast Drivetrain with MAXTube
AM14U5 (FRC Kit of Parts Chassis)
REV ION West Coast Drivetrain Assembly
REV ION Control System
REV Hardware Client
Power Distribution Hub
Radio Power Module
Mini Power Module
Brushless Motors and Controllers
Pneumatics
Sensors & Indicators
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Applying Loctite to your MAXSwerve Module
Forgot to Apply Loctite to UltraPlanetary Gearbox
Securing the MAXSwerve Motor Key
Key Not Fitting in Keyway
UltraPlanetary Cartridge Mounting Holes
Wheel Axle - Tight Fit (REV-31-3005-P18)
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
If you encounter any problems while assembling your MAXSwerve Module(s) please contact
[email protected]
Applying Loctite to your MAXSwerve Module
Making sure your screws are secure is important when building your MAXSwerve Modules. Here is a video with some best practices to keep in mind while applying Loctite or a similar thread locker to your screws.
Forgot to Apply Loctite to UltraPlanetary Gearbox
If you forgot to apply Loctite during the assembly of the UltraPlanetary Subassembly you can use a
Wicking Grade Loctite
to apply thread locker to the pre-assembled gearbox
To use, apply the Wicking Loctite to the top of the UltraPlanetary Gearbox Assembly where the screw tips are showing. The Loctite will wick between the engaged threads using capillary action to secure your screws.
Securing the MAXSwerve Motor Key
We recommend using superglue to ensure that the key stays securely in place
When putting together the
Top Plate Subassembly
of your MAXSwerve Module, ensure that the  MAXSwerve Motor Key's notch rests slightly above the lip of the encoder bridge. If the notch is not located above the encoder bridge's lip and falls into the slot, the module will not function properly and the key will become damaged.
A MAXSwerve Motor Key properly seated in the NEO's keyway with the notch resting slightly above the lip of the encoder bridge
Blue Edge: MAXSwerve Motor Key

Orange Edge: Encoder Bridge
When placing the MAXSwerve Motor Key (REV-21-3005-P10) you need to pay close attention to two areas of the key, these are marked as A and B in the image below. For area A at the end of the motor's output shaft, make sure that the key is placed close to the end of the motor shaft for the notch in the key to rest slightly above the lip of the encoder bridge. Area B of the key will need to sit as flush as possible with the NEO's Keyway so that it does not catch inside the encoder bridge and get pulled out. Use superglue to secure the motor key once you have placed it in the correct location.
Key Not Fitting in Keyway
If you are experiencing difficulty getting the key for your motor to rest on the lip of the encoder bridge, it is possible that the key is too large for the keyway. We have received this report specifically from teams using NEO V1s and Falcon 500s with the MAXPlanetary Falcon Input Kit, as the keyways changed sizes between the NEO V1 and the NEO V1.1.

To resolve this issue, we recommend sanding down the key using a jeweler's file. Start by taking off a small amount and checking the fit, then continue to remove more as needed.
UltraPlanetary Cartridge Mounting Holes
Some of the UltraPlanetary Cartridges that shipped with the first batch of MAXSwerve Modules (January 2023) have a mounting hole that is partially closed. There is a small amount of plastic leftover from the manufacturing process that will need to be removed before use.
To clear the mounting hole, use a 1/8in drill bit to drill out the excess plastic. Be sure to drill from the side of the UltraPlanetary Cartridge with the output spline facing up so that the through hole does not get off center.
Wheel Axle - Tight Fit (REV-31-3005-P18)
3in MAXSwerve Module Wheel Axles that shipped with the first batch of MAXSwerve Modules (January 2023) may have a tighter fit than expected.
To help with the fit of your Wheel Axle assembly, use a fine grit emery cloth, sandpaper, or
scotchbrite
to remove a small amount of material from the axle. It is easiest to put the Wheel Axle in a drill and then sand the Axle until the bearings are a slip fit.
We recommend using a product that is 400 grit or higher for this process
Previous
MAXSwerve Pack Contents
Next
MAXSwerve Drivetrain Assembly
Last updated
1 year ago
Was this helpful?