REV Crossover
REV Crossover Landing
Sensors
Through Bore Encoder
Specifications
Application Examples
Color Sensor V3
Specifications
Application Examples
Discontinued Color Sensors
V2 Specifications & Examples
V1 Specifications & Examples
2m Distance Sensor
Specifications
Application Examples
Magnetic Limit Switch
Specifications
Application Examples
Touch Sensor
Specifications
Application Examples
Potentiometer
Specifications
Application Examples
9-Axis IMU
Specifications
Configuring the 9-Axis IMU
Blinkin LED Driver
Blinkin LED Driver Overview
Blinkin Specifications
Blinkin Getting Started
LED Pattern Tables
Blinkin Troubleshooting
REV ION Application Examples
REV DUO Application Examples
UltraPlanetary System
UltraPlanetary System Overview
UltraPlanetary Features
Cartridge Details
Load Ratings
Assembly Instructions
Mounting Brackets
Ultra 90 Degree Gearbox
Assembly Instructions
Rotation Direction
Servos & Accessories
Servo Hub
Servo Hub Wiring
Configuring the Servo Hub with a Control Hub
Channel Power
Channel Pulse
Servo Hub Status LED Patterns
Troubleshooting
REVLib for Servo Hub
Smart Robot Servo
SRS Gear Replacement
SRS Programmer
Switching Operating Modes
Servo Power Module
Indicators
Digital LED Indicator
Specifications
Application Examples
Gamepad
Gamepad Overview
Remapping Guide
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Setting Servo Hub IDs
Accessing the Configuration Utility
Configuring Servos
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
You must be running Robot Controller App and Driver Station App version 10.0 to use a Servo Hub.
Setting Servo Hub IDs
Servo Hub IDs should be set while the Servo Hub is disconnected from a Control Hub OR before powering the robot on. Servo Hubs previously connected to a robot may need to be power cycled before changing IDs.
By default, the Servo Hub's ID should be set to 3. This can be changed by connecting the Servo Hub directly to the REV Hardware Client using a USB-C cable. The Servo Hub will appear in the Hardware List as shown below:
The "CAN ID" is the individual ID for the Servo Hub.
Each Servo Hub and Expansion Hub must have a unique ID before being able to complete the configuration process.
The CAN ID can be set between 1-10 for FTC. After choosing the ID, click "Set CAN ID".
Expansion Hubs default to ID 1 or 2.
The new Servo Hub ID is not set!
Accessing the Configuration Utility
Select the menu in the stop right corner of the Driver Station app. Then select Configure Robot.
In the Available configurations page, select New.
In the USB Devices in configuration page select the Control Hub Portal.
Note:
If you have an Expansion Hub connected via USB it will appear as an Expansion Hub Portal.
Pressing "
Scan
" on an existing configuration may result in the already named devices being erased. A new configuration file is needed when adding a camera or Expansion Hub over USB.
All connected Servo or Expansion Hubs using RS485 will appear within the menu of the portal. If you are using multiple Servo Hubs, they can be identified by their ID number.
Menu while using a single Servo Hub:
Menu while using multiple Servo Hubs:
This menu will appear the same if the Servo Hub is connected to another Servo Hub or an Expansion Hub connected using RS485.
Configuring Servos
Select the Servo Hub where you are adding servos
Select the "Servos" option
This will open a configuration menu similar to what is used for motors and sensors!
Select your desired option from the dropdown menu
Assign the device an appropriate name
Click "Done" once all names are entered to return to the main Servo Hub menu
Click "Done" again on to return to the list of all connected Hubs
Previous
Servo Hub Wiring
Next
Channel Power
Last updated
7 months ago
Was this helpful?