REV Hardware Client
REV Hardware Client Overview
Changelog
Getting Started
Installation
Navigating the Client
Troubleshooting
REV DUO
Control Hub
Updating a Control Hub
Restoring Control Hub Data
Driver Hub
Updating a Driver Hub
Expansion Hub
Android Devices
Installing RC/DS Applications
Using the Log Viewer
REV ION
SPARK Flex
Updating a SPARK Flex
SPARK MAX
Updating a SPARK MAX
Power Distribution Hub
Updating a Power Distribution Hub
Pneumatic Hub
Updating a Pneumatic Hub
Telemetry Tab
Running Multiple SPARK Motor Controllers
Recovery Mode
Crossover
Servo Hub
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Update All
Individual Updates
Driver Hub Operating System
Driver Station Application
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
Update All
When the Driver Hub and any other supported REV Hardware devices that require updates are connected the Update All button will appear.
REV Hardware Client Update All button in upper right corner.
Once Update All is is selected the REV Hardware Client will confirm the updates for all connected devices. Select Update to download and update all devices.
Update button in the middle of the REV Hardware Client Window.
Individual Updates
To install individual updates to you Driver Hub select the Driver Hub from the list of devices on the Hardware Tab. This will bring up the Update Tab.
Select Driver Hub from the list of devices.
Driver Hub Operating System
After the Update Tab opens, select Download under Driver Hub Operating System (OS) to begin downloading the update.
Download OS
Once the OS update has downloaded select Update.
Update OS
Keep the Driver Hub powered on and connected to the PC while the update finishes.
Driver Hub OS install uploading.
When the Driver Station Operating System update has completed a status message "Operating System update complete." The status of the Driver Station OS will also change to "Up-to-Date."
OS Update is complete!
Driver Station Application
After selecting the Connected Hardware the Update tab will pop up.  Under
Driver Station App select Download.
Once the app has downloaded, select Update.
When the Driver Station Application update has completed a status message "Driver Station App update complete." The status of the Driver Station App will also change to "Up-to-Date."
Driver Station App Complete!
Previous
Driver Hub
Next
Expansion Hub
Last updated
1 year ago
Was this helpful?