REV Hardware Client
REV Hardware Client Overview
Changelog
Getting Started
Installation
Navigating the Client
Troubleshooting
REV DUO
Control Hub
Updating a Control Hub
Restoring Control Hub Data
Driver Hub
Updating a Driver Hub
Expansion Hub
Android Devices
Installing RC/DS Applications
Using the Log Viewer
REV ION
SPARK Flex
Updating a SPARK Flex
SPARK MAX
Updating a SPARK MAX
Power Distribution Hub
Updating a Power Distribution Hub
Pneumatic Hub
Updating a Pneumatic Hub
Telemetry Tab
Running Multiple SPARK Motor Controllers
Recovery Mode
Crossover
Servo Hub
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Basic Tab
Operating your pneumatics system without a roboRIO
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
The REV Hardware Client has three tabs to manage different features of the Client. The Hardware Tab is where supported hardware devices are managed. The Downloads Tab allows for the downloading of supported device software for updating when offline. The About Tab has information on what devices are supported, updating the REV Hardware Client, and having issue reporting.
Basic Tab
The Basic Tab is used to set the most common parameters for the Pneumatic Hub. You can also view and clear sticky faults here.
Sticky Fault - an indicator there was a fault that will stay until the fault has been cleared manually.
Operating your pneumatics system without a roboRIO
Using the REV Hardware Client, you can completely operate and test your pneumatic system without needing a roboRIO or software. Here are some useful applications that can help your team:
Testing your pneumatic system in a bench top setting
Testing the pneumatic system on your robot without the need for software support (e.g. allowing your build team to test the pneumatics while your programmers are busy).
Using pneumatics in your quick and early prototypes during the beginning of the build season
Using the telemetry tab on the Hardware Client, you can see if you have leaks in your systems or check how much pressure you lose during normal operation without needing to write extra software. (An analog pressure sensor is needed).
Previous
Updating a Power Distribution Hub
Next
Updating a Pneumatic Hub
Last updated
7 months ago
Was this helpful?