REV Hardware Client
REV Hardware Client Overview
Changelog
Getting Started
Installation
Navigating the Client
Troubleshooting
REV DUO
Control Hub
Updating a Control Hub
Restoring Control Hub Data
Driver Hub
Updating a Driver Hub
Expansion Hub
Android Devices
Installing RC/DS Applications
Using the Log Viewer
REV ION
SPARK Flex
Updating a SPARK Flex
SPARK MAX
Updating a SPARK MAX
Power Distribution Hub
Updating a Power Distribution Hub
Pneumatic Hub
Updating a Pneumatic Hub
Telemetry Tab
Running Multiple SPARK Motor Controllers
Recovery Mode
Crossover
Servo Hub
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Connecting a SPARK Flex via USB
Navigating the REV Hardware Client
Hardware Tab
Basic Tab
Advanced Tab
Run Tab
Update Tab
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
Connecting a SPARK Flex via USB
Connect your SPARK Flex Motor Controller to your computer with a USB C cable.
Open the REV Hardware Client application.
The Client should automatically scan and connect to your SPARK Flex
SPARK Flex in the 1.6.1v of the REV Hardware Client
Additional SPARK Flex devices connected via CAN to the USB Host SPARK Flex are visible when using the latest firmware. For more information see the
SPARK Flex User's Manual.
Navigating the REV Hardware Client
The REV Hardware Client has four tabs to manage different features of the Client. The "Hardware Tab" is where supported hardware devices are managed. The "Utilities Tab" allows for viewing log files collected by the Control Hub or Driver Hub. The "Downloads Tab" allows for the downloading of supported device software for updating when offline. The "About Tab" has information on what devices are supported, updating the REV Hardware Client, and troubleshooting.
Individual devices, like the SPARK Flex, have additional tabs available when the device is selected. For a full overview of the default navigation features of the REV Hardware Client see the
User's Manual.
Below is more information on using the specific features for the SPARK Flex.
As of REV Hardware Client version 1.7.0, "Burn Flash" has been renamed to "Persist Perimeters"!
Hardware Tab
The Hardware Tab is used to select devices connected via USB or the USB to CAN bridge for configuration, updates, and more.
A SPARK Flex, PDH, and SPARK MAX showing in the 1.6.1 RHC
Once a SPARK Flex is selected from the Hardware tab a number of device specific tabs will show.
Basic Tab
The Basic Tab is used to set the most common parameters for the SPARK Flex.
Device Identify:
Blink the selected SPARK Flex's LED for identification.
CAN ID:
This assigns a SPARK Flex a CAN ID for identification over the CAN BUS. Any configured SPARK Flex
must have
a CAN ID.
Configurations:
This drop down allows you to select pre-existing configurations store on the Windows machine running the SPARK Flex Client or to pull the existing parameters stored on in RAM on the SPARK Flex. This is helpful when configuring multiple motor controllers to the same settings.
Configured Parameters:
Change the motor type, sensor type, idle mode behavior, and more.
The ability to switch "Motor Type" to brushed on the SPARK Flex will be available with the SPARK Flex Dock (Coming Soon!)
Advanced Tab
The Advanced Tab allows for changing all configurable parameters of the SPARK Flex without needing to set them in code.
SPARK Flex "Advanced" Menu
Search Parameters:
Allows for easy look up of a specific parameter for editing.
Parameter Table:
Select the arrow to show all configurable parameters within a specific group.
Remember to persist the parameters to memory before disconnecting the SPARK Flex
Run Tab
The Run Tab allows for the SPARK Flex to operate over USB or a USB to CAN Bridge without the need for a full control system. This is helpful for testing mechanisms and tuning their control loops.
SPARK Flex "Run" Menu
Run:
Choose setpoints to run a motor connected to a SPARK Flex using various modes, including position, velocity, and duty cycle.
PIDF:
Update PIDF parameters on the fly to tune control loops on the SPARK Flex.
View Graph:
Moves the Client over to the Telemetry Tab to show any added signals in graph form when running a SPARK Flex. This is helpful when tuning control loops.
Update Tab
The Update tab shows what version of firmware is on the selected device, if that device is up to date, and update the firmware of the selected device.
SPARK Flex "Update" Tab
Download Latest Firmware:
Downloads latest firmware onto the local machine running the Client.
Update Firmware:
Updates the selected device with the latest firmware.
Out-of-date Firmware Warning:
Warning to alert the user there is new firmware available for any connected device.
Previous
Using the Log Viewer
Next
Updating a SPARK Flex
Last updated
2 months ago
Was this helpful?