REV Hardware Client
REV Hardware Client Overview
Changelog
Getting Started
Installation
Navigating the Client
Troubleshooting
REV DUO
Control Hub
Updating a Control Hub
Restoring Control Hub Data
Driver Hub
Updating a Driver Hub
Expansion Hub
Android Devices
Installing RC/DS Applications
Using the Log Viewer
REV ION
SPARK Flex
Updating a SPARK Flex
SPARK MAX
Updating a SPARK MAX
Power Distribution Hub
Updating a Power Distribution Hub
Pneumatic Hub
Updating a Pneumatic Hub
Telemetry Tab
Running Multiple SPARK Motor Controllers
Recovery Mode
Crossover
Servo Hub
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
Android Developer Options
In order to use the REV Hardware Client the phone's developer settings and USB debugging options need to be turned on.
The developer options on Android Devices are hidden within the phone as a default. Different phone manufactures have different ways of accessing the developer options. However, once the developer options are available in the phone's settings, the steps for activating USB debugging and development settings are similar.
Before moving forward it is advised to look up where the developer options on your Android Device are located. For Motorola users, the
Motorola Support Page
has information on how to unlock the developer options.
Open the Android Devices settings
Scroll to the bottom of the settings, where the unlocked developer options are available. Open the developer options
At the top of the developer options page is an on/off switch. Turn the developer options on.
The device will open a confirmation message. Select 'OK.'
Scroll through the developer options until you find the Debugging section. Turn USB Debugging on.
Another confirmation message will appear, click 'OK.'
USB debugging is now on! You can move on to the steps for installing the application.
Depending on the device you may need to change the USB Settings from "Charging only" to "File Transfer".
Plug the Android Device with USB Debugging into the Windows PC running the REV Hardware Client.
Previous
Expansion Hub
Next
Installing RC/DS Applications
Last updated
2 months ago
Was this helpful?