REV Crossover
REV Crossover Landing
Sensors
Through Bore Encoder
Specifications
Application Examples
Color Sensor V3
Specifications
Application Examples
Discontinued Color Sensors
V2 Specifications & Examples
V1 Specifications & Examples
2m Distance Sensor
Specifications
Application Examples
Magnetic Limit Switch
Specifications
Application Examples
Touch Sensor
Specifications
Application Examples
Potentiometer
Specifications
Application Examples
9-Axis IMU
Specifications
Configuring the 9-Axis IMU
Blinkin LED Driver
Blinkin LED Driver Overview
Blinkin Specifications
Blinkin Getting Started
LED Pattern Tables
Blinkin Troubleshooting
REV ION Application Examples
REV DUO Application Examples
UltraPlanetary System
UltraPlanetary System Overview
UltraPlanetary Features
Cartridge Details
Load Ratings
Assembly Instructions
Mounting Brackets
Ultra 90 Degree Gearbox
Assembly Instructions
Rotation Direction
Servos & Accessories
Servo Hub
Servo Hub Wiring
Configuring the Servo Hub with a Control Hub
Channel Power
Channel Pulse
Servo Hub Status LED Patterns
Troubleshooting
REVLib for Servo Hub
Smart Robot Servo
SRS Gear Replacement
SRS Programmer
Switching Operating Modes
Servo Power Module
Indicators
Digital LED Indicator
Specifications
Application Examples
Gamepad
Gamepad Overview
Remapping Guide
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Overview
Features
Over-Current Shutdown
Specifications
About the Max. Current Specifications
Output Current Calculations
Electrical Connections
Status LEDs
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
Overview
The REV Servo Power Module is a 6V 90W power injector that enables the use of standard servos in applications where a robot controller cannot provide adequate power. The following Quick Start Guide describes the Servo Power Module features and the necessary information to get it up and running.
Features
#6 Screw Mounting Holes
Six High-Power 6V DC Output for Servos
Status LED for each Channel
6V Power LED Indicator
Integrated DC-DC Converter
Over-Current Shutdown
ESD Protection
12V Power Input
Over-Current Shutdown
If the Servo Power Module detects a total output current larger than 15A it will enter a shutdown mode where the 6V output is disabled until the over-current condition has remedied. While in shutdown the blue power LED will turn off, dim, or flicker indicating the over-current condition is still present. In the case of frequent over-current shutdowns, ensure that the total stall current of all connected servos does not exceed 15A.
Specifications
Parameter
Value and Units
Nominal Input Voltage
12V
Operating Voltage Range
7.0-20V
Minimum Startup Voltage
9.0V
Output Voltage
6V
Number of Channels
6
Max. Total Output Current (across all Channels)
15A
Max. Total Output Current Per Channel
†
3A
Max. Total Output Power
90W
Size
3.6" x 1.52" x 0.81"
Weight
2.0oz/57g
†
Updated August 2024 to include clarifications for using the Servo Power Module with newer, more powerful servos that have stall currents greater than what the hardware of the port is rated for. 

Please see our section
about the Max. Current Specifications
for more information.
About the Max. Current Specifications
Due to the shared power architecture of the six output ports, if a single connected servo draws larger than its expected power, the internal regulator will provide up 15A before going into a limiting over-current mode. While the regulator is designed to provide 15 A of current, the individual port pins are rated for approximately 3 A. This rating, of the port itself, highly depends on the quality of the connection between the Servo Power Module and the servo it is driving.
Additionally, as technology has advanced and become more accessible, teams have started using more powerful servos- many having a stall current of 4 Amps or more. While we don't believe the 4 A stall current will produce enough heat to cause problems with a properly seated and quality connection, a poor connection can cause overheating and thermal runaway that can lead to damage.
The best way to ensure you are making the most of your Servo Power Module's output, is to check that all input and output connections are fully seated with no gaps.
Output Current Calculations
It is important to ensure that you do not exceed the maximum total output current of your Servo Power Module. To do this, add together the stall current of each servo being powered by the Servo Power Module. If the total stall current is higher than 15A, you risk triggering the overcurrent protection. Consider reducing the number of servos connected to prevent triggering the overcurrent protections.
Electrical Connections
The Servo Power Module has two screw terminals for 12V power input. It is recommended to use ring or fork terminals designed for #6 or M3 screw terminals. Using an appropriate wire gauge, 18 AWG or larger, tightly crimp either a ring or fork terminal on the wire. Insert the crimped terminal into the screw terminal and tighten the screw. The input and output channels accept standard 3-wire 0.1” pitch servo/PWM cables. Please refer to the figure below or the case markings for proper orientation.
Status LEDs
Each channel has a corresponding status LED that will indicate the sensed state of the connected PWM signal. The table below describes each state’s corresponding LED pattern.
State
Pattern
No Signal
Blinking Amber
Left/Reverse Signal
Solid Red
Center/Neutral Signal
Solid Amber
Right/Forward Signal
Solid Green
Previous
Switching Operating Modes
Next
Digital LED Indicator
Last updated
7 months ago
Was this helpful?