REV Hardware Client
REV Hardware Client Overview
Changelog
Getting Started
Installation
Navigating the Client
Troubleshooting
REV DUO
Control Hub
Updating a Control Hub
Restoring Control Hub Data
Driver Hub
Updating a Driver Hub
Expansion Hub
Android Devices
Installing RC/DS Applications
Using the Log Viewer
REV ION
SPARK Flex
Updating a SPARK Flex
SPARK MAX
Updating a SPARK MAX
Power Distribution Hub
Updating a Power Distribution Hub
Pneumatic Hub
Updating a Pneumatic Hub
Telemetry Tab
Running Multiple SPARK Motor Controllers
Recovery Mode
Crossover
Servo Hub
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Connecting a Servo Hub via USB
Navigating the REV Hardware Client
Basic Tab
Servo Tab
Update Tab
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
Connecting a Servo Hub via USB
Connect your Servo Hub to your computer with a USB C cable.
Open the REV Hardware Client application.
The Client should automatically scan and connect to your Servo Hub
Navigating the REV Hardware Client
The REV Hardware Client has four tabs to manage different features of the Client. The "Hardware Tab" is where supported hardware devices are managed. The "Utilities Tab" allows for viewing log files collected by the Control Hub or Driver Hub. The "Downloads Tab" allows for the downloading of supported device software for updating when offline. The "About Tab" has information on what devices are supported, updating the REV Hardware Client, and troubleshooting.
Individual devices, like the Servo Hub, have additional tabs available when the device is selected. For a full overview of the default navigation features of the REV Hardware Client see the
User's Manual.
Below is more information on using the specific features for the Servo Hub.
Basic Tab
CAN ID:
This assigns the Servo Hub a CAN ID for identification over the CAN BUS. Any configured Servo Hub
must have
a CAN ID. This is also the
Hub Address
used with the Control Hub and Expansion Hub.
Servo Limits:
Here you can set the angular limits for each servo port. Any changes to these parameters are automatically saved to the Servo Hub.
Disabled Behavior:
This drop down allows you to select the behavior of the Servo Hub when it is disabled through code.
Servo Tab
Servo Controls:
These controls allow you to run and test servos connected to the Servo Hub through the REV Hardware Client. This is useful for testing your servo's application.
Update Tab
The Update tab shows what version of firmware is on the selected device, if that device is up to date, and update the firmware of the selected device.
Download Latest Firmware:
Downloads latest firmware onto the local machine running the Client.
Update Firmware:
Updates the selected device with the latest firmware.
Out-of-date Firmware Warning:
Warning to alert the user there is new firmware available for any connected device.
Previous
Recovery Mode
Last updated
1 month ago
Was this helpful?