REV Crossover
REV Crossover Landing
Sensors
Through Bore Encoder
Specifications
Application Examples
Color Sensor V3
Specifications
Application Examples
Discontinued Color Sensors
V2 Specifications & Examples
V1 Specifications & Examples
2m Distance Sensor
Specifications
Application Examples
Magnetic Limit Switch
Specifications
Application Examples
Touch Sensor
Specifications
Application Examples
Potentiometer
Specifications
Application Examples
9-Axis IMU
Specifications
Configuring the 9-Axis IMU
Blinkin LED Driver
Blinkin LED Driver Overview
Blinkin Specifications
Blinkin Getting Started
LED Pattern Tables
Blinkin Troubleshooting
REV ION Application Examples
REV DUO Application Examples
UltraPlanetary System
UltraPlanetary System Overview
UltraPlanetary Features
Cartridge Details
Load Ratings
Assembly Instructions
Mounting Brackets
Ultra 90 Degree Gearbox
Assembly Instructions
Rotation Direction
Servos & Accessories
Servo Hub
Servo Hub Wiring
Configuring the Servo Hub with a Control Hub
Channel Power
Channel Pulse
Servo Hub Status LED Patterns
Troubleshooting
REVLib for Servo Hub
Smart Robot Servo
SRS Gear Replacement
SRS Programmer
Switching Operating Modes
Servo Power Module
Indicators
Digital LED Indicator
Specifications
Application Examples
Gamepad
Gamepad Overview
Remapping Guide
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Getting Started
Default Assignment
Buttons for Remap can be set to be the following:
Remapping the M1 and M2 Buttons
Enabling the M1 and M2 Buttons:
Steps to Remap the M1/M2 Buttons:
Clear M1/M2 Button Mapping:
Example Program for Testing Mapping:
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
Getting Started
Default Assignment
M1 and M2 buttons on the back of the gamepad
Before the M1 and M2 buttons are mapped, they default to the following functions:
Button
Default Function
M1
Circle Button
M2
Cross Button
Buttons for Remap can be set to be the following:
The following buttons can be mapped to M1 and M2:
D-Pad Up, D-Pad Down, D-Pad Left, D-Pad Right
Triangle, Circle, Square, Cross
Right Trigger, Right Bumper, Right Joystick Button
Left Trigger, Left Bumper, Left Joystick Button
Remapping the M1 and M2 Buttons
Enabling the M1 and M2 Buttons:
Before setting up the new function of your M1 and M2 Buttons, make sure that they are enabled!
Programming button on the back of the gamepad
To enable or disable the M1/M2 Buttons press and hold the programming button for 3 seconds or until the indicator light blinks orange. The number of blinks will let you know what the
Two quick orange blinks – M1 and M2 Buttons are now
Disabled
One long orange blink – M1 and M2 Buttons are now
Enabled
Indicator light on the top of the gamepad
Steps to Remap the M1/M2 Buttons:
Once the M Buttons are remapped if the gamepad is reset or the mappings cleared the M Buttons will no longer act as active buttons until they are remapped again.
First, press and hold either the M1 or M2 button.
While continuing to hold the M button, press the programming button. When the gamepad successfully enters remapping mode, the indicator light will turn orange.
Release the M button.
Press the button you would like to map. To map a M button as multiple buttons, press all desire buttons at the same time.
Finally press the M button you selected in Step 1 to exit remapping mode. The indicator light will return to its original color.
Clear M1/M2 Button Mapping:
First, press and hold the M  button you wish to clear.
While continuing to hold the M button, press the programming button. When the gamepad successfully enters remapping mode, the indicator light will turn orange.
Release the M button.
Press the same M button again to exit remapping mode and clear the assigned mapping.
Example Program for Testing Mapping:
After remapping your M buttons, we recommend testing them with a simple program to ensure they are mapped as expected and in a way that is comfortable for the driver. This example outputs a letter to the Driver Hub's screen in response to the gamepad button pressed or when multiple buttons are pressed.
Example program for testing button mapping
Here M1 has been mapped to act as both Square and Triangle while M2 is assigned to DpadRight. When M1 is pressed, the Driver Hub will show A on the screen. When M2 is pressed, B will be reported.
Finally, if Circle is pressed the output will be C. This is to act as a control for using a regular button on the gamepad.
When using our example below,  first click "Save OpMode" after uploading and opening it on your Control Hub. Update the gamepad buttons in code using the dropdown to match how you have remapped your M buttons.
5KB
GamepadTest.blk
Test program for the gamepad
Previous
Gamepad Overview
Last updated
2 months ago
Was this helpful?