REV Hardware Client
REV Hardware Client Overview
Changelog
Getting Started
Installation
Navigating the Client
Troubleshooting
REV DUO
Control Hub
Updating a Control Hub
Restoring Control Hub Data
Driver Hub
Updating a Driver Hub
Expansion Hub
Android Devices
Installing RC/DS Applications
Using the Log Viewer
REV ION
SPARK Flex
Updating a SPARK Flex
SPARK MAX
Updating a SPARK MAX
Power Distribution Hub
Updating a Power Distribution Hub
Pneumatic Hub
Updating a Pneumatic Hub
Telemetry Tab
Running Multiple SPARK Motor Controllers
Recovery Mode
Crossover
Servo Hub
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Update All
Individual Updates
Operating System
Firmware
Robot Controller Application
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
Update All
Once one or more supported REV Hardware devices are connected that require updates, the
Update All
button will appear.
Once Update All is selected the REV Hardware Client will confirm the updates for all connected devices. Select Update to download and update all devices.
Individual Updates
Operating System
After selecting the Connected Hardware the Update tab will pop up.  Under
Control Hub Operating System
select Download.
Once the OS has downloaded, select Update.
Keep the Control Hub powered while the upload finishes.
A successful upload will be denoted by the "Update Verification Succeeded" message highlighted in the image below. Once the upload is successful the install will begin.
Keep the Control Hub powered while the update is installed. The Control Hub will reboot to complete the update.
When the OS update has completed a status message "Operating System update complete." The status for the Control Hub Operation System will also change to "Up-to-Date."
Firmware
There are two boards within the Control Hub: an Expansion Hub
and an Android controller. The Expansion Hub board built into the Control Hub, facilitates a line of communication between the built in Robot Controller and the motors, servos, and sensors. In order to improve the quality of the Hubs, REV Robotics will release firmware updates for the Expansion Hub. When a firmware release occurs, both Control Hub and Expansion Hub users will need to update their Expansion Hub firmware to the newest version.
In order to use the REV Hardware Client for firmware updates, the Robot Controller Application must first be updated to version 5.5. After updating the application you may need to close out of the REV Hardware Client in order for the firmware update to be available.
After selecting the Connected Hardware the Update tab will pop up.  Under
Hub Firmware
select Download.
Once the firmware has downloaded, select Update.
When the firmware update has completed a status message "Firmware successfully updated" The status for the Hub Firmware will also change to "Up-to-Date."
Robot Controller Application
After selecting the Connected Hardware the Update tab will pop up.  Under
Robot Controller App
select Download.
Once the app has downloaded, select Update.
When the Robot Controller Application update has completed a status message "Robot Controller app update complete." The status of the
Robot Controller App
will also change to "Up-to-Date."
Previous
Control Hub
Next
Restoring Control Hub Data
Last updated
1 year ago
Was this helpful?