REV Crossover
REV Crossover Landing
Sensors
Through Bore Encoder
Specifications
Application Examples
Color Sensor V3
Specifications
Application Examples
Discontinued Color Sensors
V2 Specifications & Examples
V1 Specifications & Examples
2m Distance Sensor
Specifications
Application Examples
Magnetic Limit Switch
Specifications
Application Examples
Touch Sensor
Specifications
Application Examples
Potentiometer
Specifications
Application Examples
9-Axis IMU
Specifications
Configuring the 9-Axis IMU
Blinkin LED Driver
Blinkin LED Driver Overview
Blinkin Specifications
Blinkin Getting Started
LED Pattern Tables
Blinkin Troubleshooting
REV ION Application Examples
REV DUO Application Examples
UltraPlanetary System
UltraPlanetary System Overview
UltraPlanetary Features
Cartridge Details
Load Ratings
Assembly Instructions
Mounting Brackets
Ultra 90 Degree Gearbox
Assembly Instructions
Rotation Direction
Servos & Accessories
Servo Hub
Servo Hub Wiring
Configuring the Servo Hub with a Control Hub
Channel Power
Channel Pulse
Servo Hub Status LED Patterns
Troubleshooting
REVLib for Servo Hub
Smart Robot Servo
SRS Gear Replacement
SRS Programmer
Switching Operating Modes
Servo Power Module
Indicators
Digital LED Indicator
Specifications
Application Examples
Gamepad
Gamepad Overview
Remapping Guide
Powered by GitBook
On this page
Status LED Patterns
General Troubleshooting
LEDs near the end of a strip are dimmer, off color, or behaving erratically.
Programmed pattern changing on robot start up/temporary power loss
Unable to Control via PWM
Factory Reset
Was this helpful?
Export as PDF
Status LED Patterns
LED Status
LED Description
Blinkin Status
Status - Solid Blue
Normal Operation, PWM Signal Detected
Status - Blinking Blue
Normal Operation, No PWM Signal Detected
Status - Solid Yellow
Setup Mode, PWM Signal Detected
Status - Blinking Yellow
Setup Mode, No PWM Signal Detected
Status - Solid Blue with Magenta Blink †
Command Signal Detected
12V Output - Solid Blue ††
12V LED Strip Selected
5V Output - Solid Blue ††
5V Addressable LED Strip Selected
†
With some commands, the Magenta Blink may last until the next LED Pattern Command Signal has been received
††
If the 12V Output and 5V Output LEDs are on at the same time, please proceed to completing a
Factory Reset
General Troubleshooting
LEDs near the end of a strip are dimmer, off color, or behaving erratically
.
Possible Cause:
LEDs are exceeding Blinkin current supply.
Solution
: Turn down the strip brightness, shorten the strip, or use a pattern with less LEDs lit at the same time.
Possible Cause:
There is too much voltage drop over the length of the strip so LEDs near the end don’t have enough voltage to operate properly.
Solution:
Shorten the LED strip or if more LEDs are needed shorten the strip and run the remaining strip in parallel to the other strip
Programmed pattern changing on robot start up/temporary power loss
Possible Cause:
A spurious pulse when some robots start up or shut down matching a command code used when factory testing the Blinkin.
Solution:
Send the pulse (listed below) for the necessary strip type.
The Status LED should turn to solid magenta and the Strip Select LED will remain the same as it was before the command was sent.
5V Strip = 2125 μs
12V Strip = 2145 μs
Send the pulse for a pattern different than the pattern that the Blinkin was originally displaying.
At this time the LEDs should change to the new strip and be set with the pattern you chose. The Status LED will go back to solid blue and the Strip Select LED will switch to the strip type you selected in Step 1.
Send the pulse for the original desired pattern to your Blinkin.
We recommend having a button programmed on your controller to reset the pattern in the case of a temporary power loss.
Unable to Control via PWM
If a Blinkin LED Driver is able to run the pre-installed light sequences and is unable to be controlled via a standard PWM Signal, like those that control a Servo Motor, make sure the Blinkin and your Control Hub or roboRIO both share a power source or
have a shared electrical ground.
Most of the time, fixing the power input for your Blinkin will resolve this issue!
Factory Reset
The Blinkin can store custom user settings in its Memory so that they persist through power cycles. To restore the Blinkin to factory default settings using the following procedure:
A factory reset will cause your Blinkin to reload the default values will into its permanent memory. All current settings will be deleted.
Power off the Blinkin
Press and hold the Mode and Strip Select buttons
Power on the Blinkin
Wait for ~2 Seconds
Release the Mode and Strip Select buttons
Previous
LED Pattern Tables
Next
REV ION Application Examples
Last updated
1 year ago
Was this helpful?