Accelerometers - Hardware

Accelerometers are common sensors used to measure acceleration.
In principle, precise measurements of acceleration can be double-integrated and used to track position (similarly to how the measurement of turn rate from a gyroscope can be integrated to determine heading) - however, in practice, accelerometers that are available within the legal FRC® price range are not nearly accurate for this use.  However, accelerometers are still useful for a number of tasks in FRC.
The roboRIO comes with a
built-in three-axis accelerometer
that all teams can use, however teams seeking more-precise measurements may purchase and use a peripheral accelerometer, as well.
Types of accelerometers

There are three types of accelerometers commonly-used in FRC: single-axis accelerometers, multi-axis accelerometers, and IMUs.
Single-axis accelerometers

As per their name, single-axis accelerometers measure acceleration along a single axis.  This axis is generally specified on the physical device, and mounting the device in the proper orientation so that the desired axis is measured is highly important.  Single-axis accelerometers generally output an analog voltage corresponding to the measured acceleration, and so connect to the roboRIO’s
analog input
ports.
Multi-axis accelerometers

Multi-axis accelerometers measure acceleration along multiple spatial axes.  The roboRIO’s built-in accelerometer is a three-axis accelerometer.
Peripheral multi-axis accelerometers may simply output multiple analog voltages (and thus connect to the
analog input ports
, or (more commonly) they may communicate with one of the roboRIO’s
serial buses
.
roboRIO built-in accelerometer

The roboRIO has a built-in accelerometer, which does not need any external connections. You can find more details about how to use it in the
Built-in Accelerometer section
of the software documentation.
IMUs (Inertial Measurement Units)

Several popular FRC devices (known as “inertial measurement units,” or “IMUs”) combine both an accelerometer and a gyroscope.  Popular FRC example include:
Analog Devices ADIS16448 and ADIS 16470 IMUs
CTRE Pigeon IMU
Kauai Labs NavX