Measuring Bandwidth Usage

On the FRC® Field each team is allocated limited network bandwidth (see R704 in the 2025 manual). Some teams may wish to measure their overall bandwidth consumption. This document details how to make that measurement.
Measuring Bandwidth Using the Performance Monitor (Win 7/10)

Windows contains a built-in tool called the Performance Monitor that can be used to monitor the bandwidth usage over a network interface.
Launching the Performance Monitor

Open the Start menu and in the search box, type
perfmon.msc
and press Enter.
Open Real-Time Monitor

In the left pane, click
Performance Monitor
to display the real-time monitor.
Add Network Counter

Click the green plus near the top of the screen to add a counter
In the top left pane, locate and click on
Network
Interface
to select it
In the bottom left pane, locate the desired network interface (or use All instances to monitor all interfaces)
Click
Add >>
to add the counter to the right pane.
Click
OK
to add the counters to the graph.
Remove Extra Counters

In the bottom pane, select each counter other than
Bytes
Total/sec
and press the
Delete
key. The
Bytes
Total/sec
entry should be the only entry remaining in the pane.
Configure Data Properties

Press
Ctrl
+
Q
to bring up the Properties window. Click on the dropdown next to
Scale
and select
1.0
. Then click on the
Graph
tab.
Configure Graph Properties

In the
Maximum
Box
under
Vertical
Scale
enter 524288 (this is 4 Megabits converted to Bytes). If desired, turn on the horizontal grid by checking the box. Then click
OK
to close the dialog.
Viewing Bandwidth Usage

You may now connect to your robot as normal over the selected interface (if you haven’t done so already). The graph will show the total bandwidth usage of the connection, with the bandwidth cap at the top of the graph.  he Last, Average, Min, and Max values are also displayed at the bottom of the graph. Note that these values are in Bytes/Second meaning the cap is 524,288. With just the Driver Station open you should see a flat line at ~100000 Bytes/Second.
Measuring Bandwidth Usage using Wireshark

If you cannot use Performance Monitor, you will need to install a 3rd party program to monitor bandwidth usage. One program that can be used for this purpose is Wireshark. Download and install the latest version of Wireshark for your version of Windows from
this page
. After installation is complete, locate and open Wireshark. Connect your computer to your robot, open the Driver Station and any Dashboard or custom programs you may be using.
Select the interface and Start capture

In the Wireshark program on the left side, double click the interface you are using to connect to the robot.
Open Capture File Properties

Let the capture run for at least 1 minute, then click
Statistics
then
Capture File Properties
.
View Bandwidth Usage

Average bandwidth usage, in bits/second is displayed near the bottom of the window.