XRP Hardware, Assembly, and Imaging

To get started with the XRP, you will need to have the necessary hardware.
XRP Kit
from SparkFun
or
from DigiKey
- Available at a discount for educational institutions or FIRST teams. See individual vendors for details.
USB-C cable
. Beta versions of XRP use a
Micro-USB cable
- Ensure that this is a data cable
4 AA batteries
- Rechargeable (
example
) is best (don’t forget the charger)
Assembly

Note
See the assembly instructions on the
XRP User Guide
.
You should follow the instructions up to and including the point where the XRP arm is mounted to the servo.
Imaging your XRP

The XRP uses a Raspberry Pi Pico W as its main processor. A special firmware will need to be installed so that the robot operates properly.
Download

There are different firmware versions for each version of the XRP robot. Use
this link
to identify which one you have.
The XRP firmware must be downloaded and written to the Pico W. Click on
Assets
at the bottom of the description to see the available image files:
XRP-WPILib Firmware
Beta versions of the XRP have ‘Beta’ in the name of the file. V1 releases do not. If you choose the wrong one it will simply not be installed, just return and download the correct one.
Imaging

To image the XRP, perform the following steps:
Plug the XRP into your computer with a Micro-USB cable. You should see a red power LED that lights up.
While holding the
BOOTSEL
button (the white button on the green Pico W, near the USB connector), quickly press the reset button (circled below), and then release the
BOOTSEL
button.
The board will temporarily disconnect from your computer, and then reconnect as a USB storage device named
RPI-RP2
.
Drag the
.uf2
firmware file into the
RPI-RP2
drive, and it will automatically update the firmware.
Once complete, the
RPI-RP2
USB storage device will disconnect. At this point, you can disconnect the XRP board from your computer and run it off battery power.
First Boot

Perform the following steps to get your XRP ready for use:
Ensure that you have 4 AA batteries installed
Turn the XRP on by sliding the power switch (circled below) on the XRP board to the on position. A red power LED will turn on.
Using your computer, connect to the XRP WiFi network using the SSID
XRP-<IDENT>
(where
<IDENT>
is based on the unique ID of the Pico W) with the WPA2 passphrase
xrp-wpilib
.
Note
If powering on the XRP in an environment with multiple other XRPs, the SSID can also be found by connecting the XRP to a computer, navigating to the USB storage device (
PICODISK
) that appears and opening the
xrp-status.txt
file.
Open a web browser and connect to the web UI at
http://192.168.42.1:5000
. If the page loads, you have established connectivity with the XRP.
Note
More information about the Web UI and configuration can be found in the
Web UI section
.