Contents
Menu
Expand
Light mode
Dark mode
Auto light/dark, in light mode
Auto light/dark, in dark mode
Hide navigation sidebar
Hide table of contents sidebar
Skip to content
Phoenix 6
Getting Started
Requirements
Installing Phoenix 6
Toggle navigation of Installing Phoenix 6
Installing Phoenix 6 (FRC)
Installing Phoenix 6 (non-FRC)
New for 2025
Migration
Phoenix 6 Features
API Migration
Toggle navigation of API Migration
API Structure
Configuration
Status Signals
Control Requests
Closed-Loop Control
Feature Replacements
CAN Bus Utilization
Phoenix Tuner
Phoenix Tuner X
Toggle navigation of Phoenix Tuner X
Connecting Tuner
Device List
Tuner History
Device Details
Tuner Configs
Self Test Snapshot
Controlling Devices
Plotting
Pigeon 2.0 Calibration
Tools
Toggle navigation of Tools
Extracting Signal Logs
CHRP Converter
Swerve Project Generator
Toggle navigation of Swerve Project Generator
Swerve Requirements
Creating your Project
Configuring Modules
Validating the Drivetrain
Generating the Project
What is Licensing
Device Licensing
Season Pass Licensing
Hardware Reference
CANcoder
CANdi™
CANdle®
CANrange
Pigeon 2.0
Toggle navigation of Pigeon 2.0
Pigeon 2 Troubleshooting
Talon FX
Toggle navigation of Talon FX
Improving Performance with Current Limits
Talon FXS
API Reference
General API Usage
Toggle navigation of General API Usage
API Overview
Configuration
Control Requests
Status Signals
Signal Logging
Hoot Replay
Device Faults
Enabling Actuators
Actuator Limits
Orchestra
Device API
Toggle navigation of Device API
TalonFX
Toggle navigation of TalonFX
Introduction to TalonFX Control
Open-Loop Control
Closed-Loop Overview
Basic PID and Profiling
Motion Magic® Controls
TalonFX Remote Sensors
Mechanisms
Toggle navigation of Mechanisms
Swerve Overview
Toggle navigation of Swerve Overview
Swerve Builder API
Swerve Requests
Swerve Simulation
Simulation
Toggle navigation of Simulation
Introduction to Simulation
WPILib Integration
Toggle navigation of WPILib Integration
MotorController Integration
SysId Integration
Toggle navigation of SysId Integration
Plumbing & Running SysId
Unit Testing
Examples
Toggle navigation of Examples
Open-Loop Quickstart
GitHub Examples
CANivore
CANivore Intro
CANivore Setup
CANivore API
Hardware-Attached Simulation
Advanced Configuration
API docs
Java API Docs
C++ API Docs
Python API Docs
C# API Docs
Application Notes
Development Blog
Toggle navigation of Development Blog
Latency and Frequency
Tuner and an evolution in configuration
Factors that Impact Odometry
Tuning CANrange
Support
Troubleshooting
Toggle navigation of Troubleshooting
CAN Bus Troubleshooting
Running the Diagnostic Server
Support
Back to top
View this page
Edit this page
Toggle Light / Dark / Auto color theme
Toggle table of contents sidebar
Latency and Frequency
¶
Authored by Cory
A common discussion with CAN-based sensors and actuators is how latency and update frequency affect robot performance. This devblog is meant to expand what these aspects are and how users can mitigate or eliminate them with Phoenix 6/Pro.
Frequency
¶
Signal frequency largely affects two aspects for robots:
Closed loop control
Odometry
Closed loop control is pretty clear, the slower the frequency, the greater the time gaps and the more you have to dampen a closed loop controller to keep it smooth. This becomes more important the less inertia your system has, such as with a swerve drive azimuth. At the inertia of a full robot, this becomes less important, as the robot can’t change its own heading fast enough for the lower frequency to have much of an impact.
Odometry is a little less clear, but the gist is that odometry itself is generally an integration problem. If your data is coming in at a lower frequency, the integration isn’t as accurate, and so you accrue drift and error. This gets worse over time, which is why absolute odometry solutions such as april tag pose are so important at the high level to correct for it.
Latency
¶
Latency itself isn’t so much an issue, but nondeterministic latency can be. If you aren’t getting data at a steady rate, it can negatively affect the odometry, as the time aspect of the integration problem is no longer constant. You can correct for this with latency compensation if you have the option to, but even that’s not a perfect solution as the latency corrected value may not be exactly correct to the real value at that point in time (although it’s certainly better than nothing).
Solutions
¶
We (CTR Electronics) recognized these problems in general and wanted to solve them, which is why each of these problems are solved in the new Phoenix 6/Pro library and with CANivore.
Fused CANcoder
(
Pro
): By fusing in the CANcoder’s position into the Talon FX’s internal position, users ensure the position is always absolute while maintaining 1000hz update frequency and 0 latency for closed loop operations. This feature is improved when used with CANivore, as the CANcoder’s position can be latency-compensated and fused even when the mechanism is moving.
Time Synchronization
(
Pro & CANivore
): The CANivore provides the ability for Pro devices to synchronize to a common clock, which allows all the devices to sample data at the same time and publish data at the same time. This makes latency of data between devices minimal, and when used with our synchronize API keeps total latency low.
Synchronous API
(
v6
): The synchronous API allows users to wait for data to arrive. By waiting for all the key data to arrive, the overall latency is reduced and users can update their robot’s data as soon as new data is available.
Time Stamps
(
v6
): Every data is timestamped so users can perform latency compensation. The timestamp information is improved if used with a CANivore, as the CANivore timestamps the data once it arrives over the wire, providing a more accurate timestamp compared to when the RIO does the timestamping.
Improved bus utilization
(
v6
): The improved bus utilization with v6 and further improvement with CANivore allow you to pretty easily increase the frequency of your key signals. We think it’s pretty achievable to get 200hz update frequencies (5ms periods) under a full robot.
Every component outlined here is used in our
SwerveDriveExample
. If you’re interested in how to do it for yourself, I’d recommend looking at it and doing something similar.
On this page
Latency and Frequency
Frequency
Latency
Solutions