Contents
Menu
Expand
Light mode
Dark mode
Auto light/dark, in light mode
Auto light/dark, in dark mode
Hide navigation sidebar
Hide table of contents sidebar
Skip to content
Phoenix 6
Getting Started
Requirements
Installing Phoenix 6
Toggle navigation of Installing Phoenix 6
Installing Phoenix 6 (FRC)
Installing Phoenix 6 (non-FRC)
New for 2025
Migration
Phoenix 6 Features
API Migration
Toggle navigation of API Migration
API Structure
Configuration
Status Signals
Control Requests
Closed-Loop Control
Feature Replacements
CAN Bus Utilization
Phoenix Tuner
Phoenix Tuner X
Toggle navigation of Phoenix Tuner X
Connecting Tuner
Device List
Tuner History
Device Details
Tuner Configs
Self Test Snapshot
Controlling Devices
Plotting
Pigeon 2.0 Calibration
Tools
Toggle navigation of Tools
Extracting Signal Logs
CHRP Converter
Swerve Project Generator
Toggle navigation of Swerve Project Generator
Swerve Requirements
Creating your Project
Configuring Modules
Validating the Drivetrain
Generating the Project
What is Licensing
Device Licensing
Season Pass Licensing
Hardware Reference
CANcoder
CANdi™
CANdle®
CANrange
Pigeon 2.0
Toggle navigation of Pigeon 2.0
Pigeon 2 Troubleshooting
Talon FX
Toggle navigation of Talon FX
Improving Performance with Current Limits
Talon FXS
API Reference
General API Usage
Toggle navigation of General API Usage
API Overview
Configuration
Control Requests
Status Signals
Signal Logging
Hoot Replay
Device Faults
Enabling Actuators
Actuator Limits
Orchestra
Device API
Toggle navigation of Device API
TalonFX
Toggle navigation of TalonFX
Introduction to TalonFX Control
Open-Loop Control
Closed-Loop Overview
Basic PID and Profiling
Motion Magic® Controls
TalonFX Remote Sensors
Mechanisms
Toggle navigation of Mechanisms
Swerve Overview
Toggle navigation of Swerve Overview
Swerve Builder API
Swerve Requests
Swerve Simulation
Simulation
Toggle navigation of Simulation
Introduction to Simulation
WPILib Integration
Toggle navigation of WPILib Integration
MotorController Integration
SysId Integration
Toggle navigation of SysId Integration
Plumbing & Running SysId
Unit Testing
Examples
Toggle navigation of Examples
Open-Loop Quickstart
GitHub Examples
CANivore
CANivore Intro
CANivore Setup
CANivore API
Hardware-Attached Simulation
Advanced Configuration
API docs
Java API Docs
C++ API Docs
Python API Docs
C# API Docs
Application Notes
Development Blog
Toggle navigation of Development Blog
Latency and Frequency
Tuner and an evolution in configuration
Factors that Impact Odometry
Tuning CANrange
Support
Troubleshooting
Toggle navigation of Troubleshooting
CAN Bus Troubleshooting
Running the Diagnostic Server
Support
Back to top
View this page
Edit this page
Toggle Light / Dark / Auto color theme
Toggle table of contents sidebar
CAN Bus Troubleshooting
¶
There are typically two failure modes that must be resolved:
There are same-model devices on the bus with the same device ID (devices have a default device ID of ‘0’).
CAN bus is not wired correctly or robustly
During hardware validation, you will likely have to isolate each device to assign a unique device ID.
Note
CTRE software has the ability to resolve device ID conflicts without device isolation, and CAN bus is capable of reporting the health of the CAN bus (see Driver Station lightening tab). However, the problem is when
both
root-causes are occurring at the same time, this can confuse students who have no experience with CAN bus systems.
Note
Many teams will pre-assign and update devices (Talon SRXs for example) long before the robot takes form. This is also a great task for new students who need to start learning the control system (with the appropriate mentor oversight to ensure hardware does not get damaged).
Identifying Duplicate IDs
¶
Tip
Label the devices appropriately so there is no guessing which device ID is what. Don’t have a label maker? Use tape and/or Sharpie (sharpie marks can be removed with alcohol).
Phoenix Tuner X will report when there are multiple devices of the same model with the same ID. This is shown when the device card is RED and there is a message in the middle of the device card. Users seeing this should iteratively
configure IDs
on the device(s).
Check your wiring
¶
Specific wiring instructions can be found in the user manual of each product, but there are common steps that must be followed for all devices:
If connectors are used for CAN bus,
tug-test each individual crimped wire
one at a time. Bad crimps/connection points are the most common cause of intermittent connection issues.
Confirm red and black are not flipped.
Confirm battery voltage is adequate (through Driver Station or through voltmeter).
Manually inspect and confirm that green-connects-to-green and yellow-connects-to-yellow at every connection point.
Flipping/mixing green and yellow is a common failure point during hardware bring up
.
Confirm breakers are installed in the PDP where appropriate.
Measure resistance between CANH and CANL when system is not powered (should measure ~60Ω).  If the measurement is 120Ω, then confirm both RIO and PDP are in circuit, and PDP jumper is in the correct location.
LEDs are red - now what?
¶
We need to rule out same-ID versus bad-bus-wiring.
There are two approaches:
Approach 1 will help troubleshoot bad wiring and common IDs.
Approach 2 will only be effective in troubleshooting common IDs, but this method is noteworthy because it is simple/quick (no wiring changes, just pull breakers).
The specific instructions for changing device ID are in the next section. Review this if needed.
Approach 1 (best)
¶
Physically connect CAN bus from roboRIO to one device only.  Circumvent your wiring if need be.
Power boot robot/bench setup.
Open Phoenix Tuner X and wait for connection (roboRIO may take ~30 seconds to boot)
Open the
Devices
page
Confirm that CAN device appears
Use Tuner X to change the device ID
Label the new ID on the physical device
Repeat this procedure for every device, one at a time
If you find a particular device where communication is not possible, scrutinize device’s power and CAN connection to the system. Make the test setup so simple that the only failure mode possible is within the device itself.
Note
Typically, there must be two 120-
\(\Omega\)
termination resistors at each end of the bus. CTR Electronics integrates termination resistors into the PDP and the CANivore. The roboRIO also has an integrated termination resistor. During bring-up, if you keep your harness short (such as the CAN pigtail leads from a single TalonFX) then a single resistor is adequate for testing purposes.
Approach 2 (easier)
¶
Leave CAN bus wiring as is
Pull breakers and PCM fuse from PDP
Disconnect CAN bus pigtail from PDP
Pick the first device to power up and restore breaker/fuse/pigtail so that only this CAN device is powered
Power boot robot/bench setup
Open Phoenix Tuner X and wait for connection (roboRIO may take ~30 seconds to boot)
Open the Devices page
Confirm that CAN device appears
If device does not appear, scrutinize device’s power and CAN connection to the system
Use Tuner X to change the device ID
Label the new ID on the physical device
Repeat this procedure for every device
If you find a particular device or section of devices where communication is not possible, then the CAN bus wiring needs to be re-inspected.  Remember to “flick” / “shake” / “jostle” the CAN wiring in various sections to attempt to reproduce red LED blips.  This is a sure sign of loose contact points.
If you are able to detect and change device ID on your devices individually, begin piecing your CAN bus together. Start with either roboRIO <—-> device <—> PDP, or CANivore <—-> device <—> 120
\(\Omega\)
resistor, to ensure termination exists at both ends.  Then introduce the remaining devices until a failure is observed or until all devices are in-circuit.
If introducing a new device creates a failure symptom, scrutinize that device by replacing it, inspecting common wires, and inspecting power.
At the end of this section, all devices should appear (notwithstanding the above notes) and device LEDs should not be red. TalonFX and Pigeon2 typically blink orange when they are healthy and not controlled, and CANcoder rapid-blinks brightly. PDP may be orange or green depending on its sticky faults.
On this page
CAN Bus Troubleshooting
Identifying Duplicate IDs
Check your wiring
LEDs are red - now what?
Approach 1 (best)
Approach 2 (easier)