Contents
Menu
Expand
Light mode
Dark mode
Auto light/dark, in light mode
Auto light/dark, in dark mode
Hide navigation sidebar
Hide table of contents sidebar
Skip to content
Phoenix 6
Getting Started
Requirements
Installing Phoenix 6
Toggle navigation of Installing Phoenix 6
Installing Phoenix 6 (FRC)
Installing Phoenix 6 (non-FRC)
New for 2025
Migration
Phoenix 6 Features
API Migration
Toggle navigation of API Migration
API Structure
Configuration
Status Signals
Control Requests
Closed-Loop Control
Feature Replacements
CAN Bus Utilization
Phoenix Tuner
Phoenix Tuner X
Toggle navigation of Phoenix Tuner X
Connecting Tuner
Device List
Tuner History
Device Details
Tuner Configs
Self Test Snapshot
Controlling Devices
Plotting
Pigeon 2.0 Calibration
Tools
Toggle navigation of Tools
Extracting Signal Logs
CHRP Converter
Swerve Project Generator
Toggle navigation of Swerve Project Generator
Swerve Requirements
Creating your Project
Configuring Modules
Validating the Drivetrain
Generating the Project
What is Licensing
Device Licensing
Season Pass Licensing
Hardware Reference
CANcoder
CANdi™
CANdle®
CANrange
Pigeon 2.0
Toggle navigation of Pigeon 2.0
Pigeon 2 Troubleshooting
Talon FX
Toggle navigation of Talon FX
Improving Performance with Current Limits
Talon FXS
API Reference
General API Usage
Toggle navigation of General API Usage
API Overview
Configuration
Control Requests
Status Signals
Signal Logging
Hoot Replay
Device Faults
Enabling Actuators
Actuator Limits
Orchestra
Device API
Toggle navigation of Device API
TalonFX
Toggle navigation of TalonFX
Introduction to TalonFX Control
Open-Loop Control
Closed-Loop Overview
Basic PID and Profiling
Motion Magic® Controls
TalonFX Remote Sensors
Mechanisms
Toggle navigation of Mechanisms
Swerve Overview
Toggle navigation of Swerve Overview
Swerve Builder API
Swerve Requests
Swerve Simulation
Simulation
Toggle navigation of Simulation
Introduction to Simulation
WPILib Integration
Toggle navigation of WPILib Integration
MotorController Integration
SysId Integration
Toggle navigation of SysId Integration
Plumbing & Running SysId
Unit Testing
Examples
Toggle navigation of Examples
Open-Loop Quickstart
GitHub Examples
CANivore
CANivore Intro
CANivore Setup
CANivore API
Hardware-Attached Simulation
Advanced Configuration
API docs
Java API Docs
C++ API Docs
Python API Docs
C# API Docs
Application Notes
Development Blog
Toggle navigation of Development Blog
Latency and Frequency
Tuner and an evolution in configuration
Factors that Impact Odometry
Tuning CANrange
Support
Troubleshooting
Toggle navigation of Troubleshooting
CAN Bus Troubleshooting
Running the Diagnostic Server
Support
Back to top
View this page
Edit this page
Toggle Light / Dark / Auto color theme
Toggle table of contents sidebar
Closed-Loop Overview
¶
Closed-loop control typically refers to control of a motor that relies on sensor data to adjust based on error. Systems/mechanisms that rely on maintaining a certain position or velocity achieve this state using closed-loop control. This is achieved by
feedback
(PID) and
feedforward
control. Closed-loop control can be performed on the robot controller or on the individual motor controllers. The benefits of onboard closed-loop control are that there is no sensor latency, and the closed-loop controller has a 1 kHz update frequency. This can result in a more responsive output compared to running the closed-loop on the robot controller.
Since closed-loop control changes based on the dynamics of the system (velocity, mass, CoG, etc.), closed-loop relies on PID and feedforward parameters. These parameters are configured either via
Tuner Configs
or in
code
. The parameters can be determined using System Identification (such as with
WPILib SysId
) or through
manual tuning
.
Manual tuning typically follows this process:
Set all gains to zero.
Determine
\(K_g\)
if using an
elevator
or
arm
.
Select the appropriate
Static Feedforward Sign
for your closed-loop type.
Increase
\(K_s\)
until just before the motor moves.
If using velocity setpoints, increase
\(K_v\)
until the output velocity closely matches the velocity setpoints.
Increase
\(K_p\)
until the output starts to oscillate around the setpoint.
Increase
\(K_d\)
as much as possible without introducing jittering to the response.
All closed-loop control requests follow the naming pattern
{ClosedLoopMode}{ControlOutputType}
. For example, the
VelocityVoltage
control request performs a velocity closed-loop using voltage output.
Choosing Output Type
¶
The choice of
control output type
can affect the reproducibility and stability of the closed-loop control.
DutyCycle has the benefit of being the simplest control output type, as it is unaffected by voltage and current measurements. However, because DutyCycle represents a proportion of the supply voltage, changes in battery voltage can affect the reproducibility of the control request.
Voltage control output takes into account the supply voltage to ensure its voltage output remains consistent. As a result, Voltage control often results in more stable and reproducible behavior compared to DutyCycle control, so Voltage control is often preferred.
A disadvantage with both DutyCycle and Voltage control output types is that they
control acceleration indirectly
and require a velocity feedforward
\(K_v\)
to hold a constant velocity. On the other hand, torque-based control output types, such as TorqueCurrentFOC,
directly control acceleration
, which has several advantages:
Since the torque request is directly proportional to acceleration,
\(K_v\)
is generally unnecessary. A torque output of 0 corresponds to a constant velocity, assuming no external forces.
\(K_a\)
can be tuned independently of all the other closed-loop gains by comparing the measured acceleration with the requested acceleration.
Because the output is in units of torque, the units of the gains more closely match those of forces in the real world.
As a result, torque-based control output types offer more stable and reproducible behavior that can be easier to tune compared to the other control output types.
Gain Slots
¶
It may be useful to switch between presets of gains in a motor controller, so the TalonFX supports multiple gain slots. All closed-loop control requests have a member variable
Slot
that can be assigned an integer ID to select the set of gains used by the closed-loop. The gain slots can be
configured in code
using
Slot*Configs
(
Java
,
C++
,
Python
) objects.
Gravity Feedforward
¶
The gravity feedforward
\(K_g\)
is the output necessary to overcome gravity, in units of the
control output type
. Phoenix 6 supports the two most common use cases for
\(K_g\)
—elevators and arms—using the
GravityType
config in the gain slots.
Elevator/Static
¶
For systems with a constant gravity component, such as an elevator,
\(K_g\)
adds a constant value to the closed-loop output. To find
\(K_g\)
, determine the output necessary to hold the elevator at a constant height in open-loop control.
Arm/Cosine
¶
For systems with an angular gravity component, such as an arm, the output of
\(K_g\)
is dependent on the cosine of the angle between the arm and horizontal. The value of
\(K_g\)
can be found by determining the output necessary to hold the arm horizontally forward.
Since the arm
\(K_g\)
uses the angle of the arm relative to horizontal, the Talon FX often requires an absolute sensor whose position is 1:1 with the arm, and the sensor offset and ratios must be configured.
When using an absolute sensor, such as a CANcoder, the sensor offset must be configured such that a position of 0 represents the arm being held horizontally forward. From there, the
RotorToSensor
ratio must be configured to the ratio between the absolute sensor and the Talon FX rotor.
Static Feedforward Sign
¶
The static feedforward
\(K_s\)
is the output needed to overcome the system’s static friction, in units of the
control output type
. Because friction always opposes the direction of motion, the sign of
\(K_s\)
also depends on the direction of motion. Phoenix 6 provides two possible methods of determining this signage using the
StaticFeedforwardSign
config in the gain slots.
Velocity Sign
¶
By default, the signage of
\(K_s\)
is determined by the signage of the velocity setpoint. In other words, if the velocity setpoint is positive, then the output of
\(K_s\)
is positive; if the velocity setpoint is negative, then
\(K_s\)
is negative. This option is always used when running velocity closed loops, and it is recommended for Motion Magic® controls and motion-profiled position closed loops.
Closed-Loop Sign
¶
When using a position closed-loop controller, signage of
\(K_s\)
can instead be determined by the sign of the closed-loop error. For example, if the position error (target - measured) is positive, then the output of
\(K_s\)
is positive; if the error is negative, then
\(K_s\)
is negative. This option is typically used when a velocity setpoint is otherwise not available, such as when running unprofiled position closed loops.
Important
When using the sign of closed-loop error for
\(K_s\)
, it is important that the selected
\(K_s\)
value is not too large. Otherwise, the motor output may dither or oscillate when near the closed-loop target.
Converting from Meters
¶
In some applications, it may be useful to translate between meters and rotations. This can be done using the following equation:
\[rotations = \frac{meters}{2 \pi \cdot wheelRadius} \cdot gearRatio\]
where
meters
is the target in meters,
wheelRadius
is the radius of the wheel in meters, and
gearRatio
is the gear ratio between the output shaft and the wheel.
This equation also works with converting velocity from m/s to rps or acceleration from m/s² to rps/s.
Continuous Mechanism Wrap
¶
A continuous mechanism is a mechanism with unlimited travel in any direction, and whose rotational position can be represented with multiple unique position values. Some examples of continuous mechanisms are swerve drive steer mechanisms or turrets (without cable management).
ContinuousWrap
(
Java
,
C++
,
Python
) is a mode of closed loop operation that enables the Talon to take the “shortest path” to a target position for a continuous mechanism. It does this by assuming that the mechanism is continuous within 1 rotation.
For example, if a Talon is currently at 2.1 rotations, it knows this is equivalent to every position that is exactly 1.0 rotations away from each other (3.1, 1.1, 0.1, -0.9, etc.). If that Talon is then commanded to a position of 0.8 rotations, instead of driving backwards 1.3 rotations or forwards 0.7 rotations, it will drive backwards 0.3 rotations to a target of 1.8 rotations.
Note
The
ContinuousWrap
config only affects the closed loop operation. Other signals such as Position are unaffected by this config.
In order to use this feature, the
FeedbackConfigs
(
Java
,
C++
,
Python
) ratio configs must be configured so that the mechanism is properly described. An example is provided below, where there is a continuous mechanism with a 12.8:1 speed reduction between the rotor and mechanism.
On this page
Closed-Loop Overview
Choosing Output Type
Gain Slots
Gravity Feedforward
Elevator/Static
Arm/Cosine
Static Feedforward Sign
Velocity Sign
Closed-Loop Sign
Converting from Meters
Continuous Mechanism Wrap